This is Jockelpontcast number 142 with echo Charles and me, Jockelwillink. Good evening, echo. Good evening.
SLA Marshall could be a bragher of the first order. I could write on toilet paper with a crayon and
cellet was a routine boast, but his favorite claim to fame was at first the most puzzling to me.
Years later the most significant in terms of unraveling the hustler and the phony that he was,
and how he was nonetheless able to make such a mark on the US Army. SLAAM regularly brought
up the fact that the army had made him a general despite his never having attended even one military
school and that he was the only general in the army to have this distinction. He neglected to say
and never would have had a not followed up out of sheer curiosity that he'd gotten his star not
in the regular army, but in the reserves. Meanwhile, with no reason not to believe him, I accepted
SLAAM's story of World War I. His experiences as an infantryman in all the major campaigns,
his battlefield commission to become the youngest second lieutenant in the US Army during the war,
the romantic tale he spun of armistice day when he saw in the end of the war sharing his
canteens with his brigade commander in the trenches. With no reason not to believe him,
I accepted SLAAM's tales of World War II, too. His participation in the fighting in the Pacific,
as well as his service in Europe, which had him in the front line of the Normandy invasion.
It would be many, many, many years in which SLAAM repeated the stories endlessly in which his
reputation was only further bolstered as one or the other appeared in everything from current
biography 1953 to the obituary upon his death in 1977, and in his autobiography published two
years later before I would discover it was all a lie. SLAAM had been an enlisted man
with the 315th engineers, 90th infantry division during World War I, and spent his time not fighting
as an infantryman, but repairing French road roads until just before the wars end. He had not
been battlefield commissioned, and he wasn't anywhere near the trenches on 11 November 1918,
in being instead at the Army, France based officer candidate school, then called infantry
candidate school, the self-proclaimed youngest lieutenant in World War I who, in fact, never served
an officer in any outfit regular or reserved in any capacity ever was not commissioned until April
1919 long after the last angry shots were fired. According to his service record,
SLAAM saw no infantry combat in World War II, either, although he was awarded a CIB for the
Marshall Islands campaign while serving on the DA staff, and far from being on the ground from
the earliest hours of the 6 June 1944 Normandy invasion, SLAAM didn't even arrive in the European
Thirit Theatre until July, and then it was as a staff officer slash historian reconstructing
the operation, and while SLAAM would speak with pride of being the only American soldier to serve
in all four of America's great wars in the 20th century. It was a claim more than a little deceptive.
His Korean war experience covered exactly three months, December of 1950 to February 1951,
when he was recalled from the reserve to active duty as a historian slash operations analysis
for the 8th Army, a stint for his country that produced the river and the gauntlet for himself,
and his service in Vietnam was undertaken as a six-year retire reserve general and a 40-year
experienced journalist. SLAAM's job when he wasn't wearing a khaki, looking for a story on the Army's
tab. A historian as careless with his own history as SLAAM Marshall was could hardly be a careful
historian and Marshall proved the rule. Veterans of many of the actions he documented in his books
have complained bitterly over the years of the inaccuracy or blatant bias.
With it although the truth was that SLAAM was a fallen and irrevocably smashed idol in my eyes.
He knew I'd grown away from him throughout our time together, but it was not something to discuss.
I cherished my career too much to risk getting on his bad side, and I was opportunistic enough
to see the value of my staying on the good side. But there must have been many like me,
whose silence in the face of SLAAM's power only added to it and gave credence to his dubious expertise,
who allowed him to have an observed amount of influence which fed his ego and lined his purse.
And for years did an incalculable horrific disservice to the Army, the thing he professed to love
above all, not to mention to the nation and to the men who fought and died in Vietnam.
When General Johnson had warned me to take care with SLAAM, he is the Army's powerful friend,
but he can be a treacherous enemy. I had not understood what he meant. But when I finally did,
I understood too that the Chief of Staff had gotten it backwards. The reality was that SLAAM Marshall
was the Army's powerful enemy because he was its most treacherous friend. And if he were alive
today, perhaps even more than the Vietnam-era generals who determinedly maintained we won the war,
we lost in their hands. SLAAM Marshall would have plenty to answer for.
That right there is a section from my favorite book about face by Colonel David Hackworth.
And he's talking about his experience with a guy by the name of SLA Marshall,
otherwise known as SLAM, SLAM Marshall. And that's a pretty devastating opening. That's a pretty
devastating opening. You can hear what his career was. So there's a lot of
negativity around SLA Marshall. And for me coming from Hackworth, that's basically all I need to hear.
That's all I need to hear is when Hackworth goes and so Hackworth works with him and did a
torn Vietnam with him, they were going around documenting things and he got to know him. And at
first he kind of idolized him and he'll talk about that a little bit. But that's one of the things
that Hack mentions in about face was that he had this huge impact on the army. And
Hack says that he used to read his books over and over again. And so it's kind of a weird
dichotomy there is that Hack got information from some of SLA Marshall's famous books that he wrote
about combat. But then he turned out to not have told the truth. So one of the books that
he talks about that he read a bunch is a book called Men Against Fire. And it's based on his
interviews and reporting on World War II. And that book made some claims. And some of the claims
that the book made are just patently untrue. Just law there. Just not true. And the biggest of the lies.
Is that right to call the light? The biggest of the claims. Maybe it's a lie. The biggest of the
untruths will call it that. The biggest of the untruths revolves around this notion that SLA
Marshall presents that in combat only about 15% of the soldiers on the battlefield in combat actually
fires a weapons at all. 15%. Now that's a really strange thing to say. Now and knowing what I know
now I think he may have done that for a couple of reasons. And I'm not making excuses. I'm saying
this is why I think he would do that because there's no excuse for doing this. The first is I think he
wanted to have a theory or a hypothesis that was like kind of shocking and would gain him
simplicity. Right? That's a shocking thing. When you hear hey in combat only 15% of people fire
their weapons. Right? You're going, what are you talking about? That's crazy. So I think he wanted
to have something to discuss that would bring him out to the limelight. You know, the shocking
claim. And second, I think he saw that there was an actual problem. Right? That maybe not as many people
shot their weapons in combat as should. And he wanted to fix that problem. So it was at 85% of the
people that weren't shooting the weapon? No. But maybe the number was a decent percentage that
didn't shoot or could have shot more. Is that possible? Yeah, I could say that that's possible. Maybe
not as many people were, not as many people were shooting as you would have liked. So that's why I
think he got focused on that particular subject. And I think the normal human life things, right?
I think he had a big ego, which actually I don't think he did. He had a big ego. He was insecure.
I think he made up some of these other stories, which are horrible to make up stories about
your combat experiences. It's a big mistake. I think this is, you know, in many ways, this is like
one of the first documented cases of stolen valor, right? And obviously I don't like stolen valor.
So there's a lot of negativity around SLA Marshall. And I have to be careful because
I, it's very easy for me to throw the baby out with the bath water, right? And when you,
you know, okay, so I'm here to learn, right? And despite these very, very significant
character shortfalls, here's the facts, the books that hero guided the military and had a significant
impact on military leaders for many years, including hackworth, including hackworth. So
eventually I had to look and see what is in these books and what if anything I could learn from the
books? And I think, from my perspective, okay, so he did massive amounts of interviews with people.
And he did have, you know, he was, okay, he was an indie day. He was there a month later,
interviewing people, finding out what happened. So he talked to a lot of people. And I think his
perspective and same thing with World War I, he wasn't there, but he was close to it. And he
talked to a lot of people. And then he spent his time in the Pacific theater and he spent time
in Korea. So he had perspective. It's not the perspective that he claimed to have. And if he would have
been smart and just said, look, I wasn't on the front lines, but I talked to a lot of people.
I have, I wasn't a military, I have a good perspective. Here's what I've learned. If you were to
said that, it would have been fine. Unfortunately, he didn't say that. Do we throw the baby out with
the bath water? The, the, my initial, like, gut reaction is yes, flyer, right? Right? Hey,
no, I'm not going to listen this guy. But I have to think about it. If this book influenced the military
so much and this book in particular with the book is, is men against fire is the big book that he wrote.
I say the big book, it's the book that he wrote after World War II. I think it came out in 1947.
And it's, it had a big influence. And I can tell you that I had a big influence. It had a big
influence. And this is what's funny. It had a big influence because despite so I guess the facts about his
career came out after he died. He died in 1977 and the facts came out some years after that, right?
I would hear quotes from SLA Marshall all the time when I was in. This guy is a known liar.
Again, maybe that's a harsh word, but he did not tell the truth. And you know, when it comes to
like making up what you did in combat, you kind of kind of earned yourself the the name liar.
So the guy lied. And yet I would hear quotes from what he said and what he taught and what he
thought and a lot of it made sense, right? So okay, is it true that a even a broken clock is right
twice a day? That's still a pretty small percentage. But I'd hear quotes from SLA Marshall that
were correct. And it wasn't a small number of quotes. And so I think despite his ego, despite his
lying, he had a lot of good, he had gathered a lot of good information and talked to enough people
that he actually started to make sense and he saw people in multiple different wars. Again,
did he see it to the degree that he claimed to? No. But you know, there's, there's a lot of
military historians that were never in any kind of combat whatsoever. That were never even in the
military. There's there's plenty of very respected. I've got books in the queue and I don't know if
I'll ever cover them, but I've got books in the queue that are great books about war and about the
military that were written by people that were never in the military. There's military theorists that
were never in the military that I have a great deal of respect for. So then that they say sensible things.
So is there a question of character? Yes, are we going to throw the baby out of the bath water?
I'm going to try not to. I'm going to try and see what we can learn. And I think from when I read
this book, and I read this book a long time ago and I don't know
anyways, I got stuff out of it. And I think there's actually, I'm going to tell you, I think there's
actually a lot to get out of this book. And if nothing else, it reflects
and reinforces some lessons and brings some other ones. We paint them a little bit more clearly.
So without further ado, and I found myself as I was reviewing this book again,
like about halfway through it, I totally forgot that it was this guy that I
consider a liar, right? I got over that, right? Because I'm thinking to have that make sense. Yes,
that does that. And he's pulling in quotes from military leaders. And yeah, yeah, that's
are you with me? I mean, doesn't make sense? It makes 100% sense because remember back in the day,
remember Millie Vanilli? Remember that? Those are that group. Oh, you guys are the two guys. Yes,
so they were liars. Yeah, because in that way, yeah, so it wasn't them singing and all this stuff,
as it turns out, as it turns out, but when they were on the radio and stuff,
everyone liked that, you know, blaming on the rain and whatever. Did they,
did they recover? They did not recover from their situation. Negative. And I, SLA Marshall was dead.
Yeah, well, one of the guys committed suicide in Millie Vanilli. He was like, you know,
you got heavy, but nonetheless, the point is, it's like, yeah, it's not them singing it,
you know, their liars are whatever, but the songs were kind of dope. That's the thing.
So, you know, it's one same deal. So I get like Marshall Millie Vanilli. It's same thing. Same
same situation right here. I'm saying, if you put on one of the Vanilli, Millie Vanilli songs
right now, don't bring it right back, you know, the dance or whatever, and you know, it's still good.
It's good. So you had a liard that you take the guys that actually sang it or why don't you teach
those two guys how to sing is that how that are to sing? Yes. So one time, not to go too deep into it,
but they tried to make it was to do a podcast about Millie Vanilli out of here.
They went into it. And they were like, hey, we think you could because they messed up on stage.
Right. That's how they got to taste the skip. Yeah. And well, and so they're like, oh my gosh,
they panic. They ran off stage all the stuff. They could have just been like, yeah, we're lip
syncing for that show. But then I forgot how they handled it. But then people were like, hey,
how long did you take the guy to kill himself? Oh, long time. Here's, you know, they got exposed
and all this stuff. Yeah. But he was just, and so they're like, um, they're like, no, we'll prove it,
you know? And then so the people came in and listened to him like actually singing the thing.
It was like, oh my god, not even close. These guys can't even sing. You know,
it's, you got to tell the truth about what's going on, man. You got to. And that's the thing,
like, just like I said, like, why not just get here that the people who were really saying those songs,
they were older people. They were like old, like 50s or something like that. Like, so they didn't have
the pop culture kind of feel. So they were less marketable. But they did just hire a couple, like,
vocalists. I mean, how bad can those guys sing terrible. Oh, the real guys. Oh, man. Yeah, you
can watch the little documentary thing. What I was like, good. And they have thick German accents,
too. That's the thing too. Yeah, they're from Germany. Oh, so it's like it's a night and day. They're different.
And but the real people who sang it, they're like, like I said, like, old, you know, funky,
like kind of jazz type people from what I remember. There is less marco. But just like how you said,
sure they're less marketable. But man, they're putting out some pretty cool songs. I mean,
yeah, I mean, yeah, I don't know. The marketing, I think that's a big part of it. I don't know,
man. But I mean, you are right. You know, it's weird. It's also because the stuff that stuff that
S.L.A. Marshall says in this book, he's making, he's making statements that they stand on their own.
You don't need, you know, to be able to say, look, I was here. So therefore what I'm saying,
you should listen to. Like, no, the the value of what you're saying should stand on its own.
He don't need to be, you don't need to be a have some certain experience. You know, it's like
life. And I talk about, and I would say, you can't, if you're trying to prove a tactic to someone,
like if I say, hey, when you get in the situation, here's what you should do. I shouldn't say,
because this is how we did it when I was in Baghdad or when I was in a mod or whatever, or when I was
in nom, like, no, here's the tactic and look at how it performs. Go and do a trial run,
go and do some force on force training. You'll see that the tactic works. And S.L.A.
Marshall, smart guy, great writer, got, you know, could have said, hey, here's these tactics that I
learned from these other people that just got out of it. And that wasn't good. That's a little
even thing, isn't it? Just wasn't good enough for them. Didn't you guys have a name for that
one, someone must let out? Yeah, yeah, we we we we we we we we we just when I was in Baghdad. Yeah,
when I was in Baghdad, like, when I was in Baghdad, we did it like this. Yeah. And you can't stand.
You can't stand on that, right? Is it good to have experience and say, hey, look, when I was in Baghdad,
this is how we did it, perhaps we should try it this way. That's one thing. But to say, when I was in Baghdad,
this is how we did it. So that's how is the best way to do it, which is just not true. It's not true.
Things evolve. The the fundamental principles of combat leadership don't change, but the tactics that
you use can definitely model. You have to modify your tactics. The enemies can modify their
tactics. So you have to adjust as well. And so to rely on your personal experience as how you
bolster your arguments is wrong. It's it's a it's an additive, right? It's it's good to say,
hey, look, I've done this before. And this is a good way. I'm in a ride situation where I was
teaching how to go over the beach with boats, right? And I brought up some things and I said,
hey, look, I've done and I had happened to have done multiple deployments on a ship. And when you're
on a ship, you go over the beach a lot. And going over the beaches, a complicated operation.
I don't care. There's no easy way to do it, man. You got gear that's going to flood out and you
got waves. You got tied. You got surf. You got sand. You got salt water. It's a nightmare. And
that's one of the things that makes the seals good is that we have to do this. So when you go,
you knew insert any other way. It's freaking easy. Like you step off a helicopter. Everything's fine.
You see, you know, you you you you you get dropped out of a vehicle. Everything's fine. You come
over the beach. Everything is a disaster. There's salt everywhere. There's water everywhere. Everything's
flooded and broken and you're freezing cold. It's just sucks. And that's that's our normal mode of
operation is right there. So everything else seems easy. But I had a guy that was saying, don't,
don't ever bring the boats in. And I totally disagreed with that. It was like, well, it you have to
think about what you're going to do. It's basically what I'm saying. You have to think about what you're
going to do. If you can avoid if the boats come in and they flip, it's a real problem. Right. It's a real
problem. If there's a surf, it's a real problem. And you need to have like elements ready to just
handle the boats. Because if something goes wrong, so you can't you have to really think about what you're
doing. Anyways, I almost fell back on the like look, I've done this. I've done over the beach
over and over again. I know the deal. Right. It's like, no, no, actually, because the deal is many times
when you look at the surf and you go, you know what, we need to swim in. It's going to suck,
but we need to swim in because risking the boats going through. And there's two, there's two
things that are pulling at you. The waves are big, right? You're thinking, hey, we better get the boats
to bring us in. That's actually counterintuitive. Because the waves are big, man, you flip a boat over
and you got, you're just a disaster. It's a disaster. So anyways, I almost relied on the, hey,
this is the way we did it. And I've done this a bunch. And it's like, no, that's not merit. You have to
be like, explain, okay, here's what can happen. Here's the problems. And here's, and there's problems for
both of us. There's times where you swim in. There's times where you don't. But you have to understand
why you're making that decision. You can't just blank it a decision. Because it gets sketchy. All right,
anyways, this is a big introduction to SLA Marshall. Here we go. I got to say one more thing.
Bro, and in your life and we've written two books about our experiences. They're not, they're
they've leadership books, but you know, we make it very clear that like, hey, this is our
memory to the best of our ability. But there's some things that you just don't,
you, you, you, if you don't know something, you shouldn't make a claim. But there's something like,
you know, if you were participating in D day, you don't mess up that fact. Like, for me to be like,
hey, I, oh, yeah, I was on that mission. And so I'm going to be like, oh, well, actually you weren't.
Maybe like, well, when was it? And, well, I did whatever. I was on 100 operations. Oh, I don't know
if it's on that one or that. Well, you know, you know, like, it's understood, right? People make mistakes.
People, your memory, it fades with memory. I think late for night. I mean, we, in both the
intros to extreme ownership and dichotomy leadership, we spelled out, you know, this is to the best of our
memory. This isn't a historical document. And we, you know, at some point, I'm sure we'll go back and
and actually get the dates and explain every single thing that happened by date and who is there
in what experience took place. Like, yeah, that would be good to have. And especially now,
it's probably, it's all unclassified now because it's been a long time. But the kind of errors that he's
making in are like, I was at D-Day or I was in the trenches with my brigade commander on the
day that world war one ended. Like, that's not a small, like your memory is not going to forget that,
right? It's just not going to happen. So, tell the truth. And what sucks is, this is what sucks.
If you don't tell the truth, you discredit everything that you've said that actually is truthful.
That's the problem with this book. That's the problem with this book. Everything that,
it basically, you could take this book and throw it in the garbage can and no one could really
argue with you. Oh, that guy lied about a bunch of stuff. Okay. Well, throw it in the garbage can. I get it.
Yeah. And if it wasn't for the fact that hack actually had learned a ton from this book,
I would be like, well, well, throwing the garbage. But if you learned from it, and then used what
he learned from it to implement in the Korean War and the Vietnam War, it's like, okay, you know what,
I'm going to pay attention to it. That's a rough time. This is a rough time. It took me a long time
to decide to cover this book, actually. Yeah. In that crazy makes sense, though. Totally makes sense.
Wait, makes sense that it took a long time and it makes sense that we're here right now with book and hand.
Both. Okay. I mean, more the long time thing. Of course, yeah, you got to consider. Just like that.
Well, there's like a reporter, like a news reporter who's like Sadie was in a helicopter and it got to fire.
And all that was Hillary Clinton. Yeah. Yeah. She took sniper fire coming. Right.
So there was a reporter that did that too. Yeah. It was like a legit reporter. Yeah.
And then he said like he did took all this stuff and they were like, well, I was in the helicopter.
Like two helicopters behind the camera. You know, you know, meanwhile, yes, I'm good stuff.
Yeah. You shouldn't have said that, you know, just like I said, you should. You don't have to say all that.
You know, there's something else that happens. This catches people when it comes to storytelling.
Okay. I'm going to explain this. If I'm telling you a story about something taking place
and I'm not a great storyteller, I want you to feel how I felt.
Hmm. So if I say to you, like, let's say I got a mortar that exploded 50 yards from me.
50 yards. I'm pretty safe. Could I get fractured? I could get fract, but I'm pretty safe.
It's still pretty shocking. Whoa. It's blower. Boom. And when that first mortar hit you, like, oh,
wait, is another mortar going to hit me? What's going on? Well, when I tell you, hey, a mortar hit
and hit 50 meters from me, I'm thinking, well, that doesn't really convey how I felt at that moment.
Yeah. So you know what I'm going to do? I'm just going to cut that down with. I had this mortar hit 10
meters from me. And now you're thinking, oh, dang. Like, even you, I can see it on your face. You get it now.
So in order for me to try and convey the emotions that I actually felt, people start to adjust.
And you've got to be careful that. I don't think they're doing it intentionally. You know,
I, I just put myself in check. Like, okay, I need to tell a good story, but I need to keep the facts straight.
Yeah. Right. sketchy. Yeah. That's the thing. The facts. So there's a difference between saying,
hey, this was the biggest explosion you'd ever seen in your life. You know, like saying that is
different than like this explosion was literally, you know, 200 feet in there. Right. Right. Like this.
Well, you could say, oh, this was a 400 pounds worth of TNT. Yeah, you can't make those facts.
You can't make those facts with it. But hey, something hits 50 meters from you and you never
been ordered before. That will, that is a scary thing. Yeah. It's a scary thing. Do a metaphor, though.
Yes. Yeah. But here's what's here's what's cool. Or here's what you need to, here's what I always
need to remember. When I tell you, I got a mortar that landed 50 meters. Most people are like,
damn, that's scary enough. I don't need to make it more scary. Oh, yeah. Let's just keep it real.
Yeah. You even mentioned the smoke trail behind the mortar when you see it going up to me. That's scary.
Yeah. I don't care how many meters. It's not really smoke. It's, uh, it's like little sparks.
Like a sparkler. Oh, like a trail. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's what it sounds like too.
It's something that even sounds scary by the way. So um, here we end up. We end up with SLA Marshall's
buck. Lots to learn from it. And yeah. So let's get into it. We'll, we'll, we'll, we'll,
we'll try and take it for what it's worth. Yes, sir. And I believe you're going to find as I was
reviewing this buck. I'm like, yeah, there's so much good information in here. Here we go to the book.
In the early years of World War II was the common practice of public spokesman in the United
States to magnify the role of the machine in war while minimizing the importance of large forces of
well-trained foot soldiers. Hey, World War II. We're just going to win this thing with all these
big machines. We're, we're, we're creating once the total contest between national societies is
predicated. It becomes impossible to write off the ultimate clash between the masses of men
who fight on foot. They are the body of the national defense. There is no other way out.
So the society, which looks for an easier way, is building its hope on sand.
Do you already getting kind of fired up? Because that's real.
Improvisation is the natural order of warfare. The perfect formulas will continue to be found only
on charts. That's good. What's the quote that you clipped out of Dave Burke saying? Good deal.
Yeah, good deal. Saying, you said it at the master. It's not a spreadsheet.
Oh, yeah, this isn't a spreadsheet anymore. This isn't a spreadsheet anymore. And that's kind of
what I, that maybe think of that because leadership is not a spreadsheet. It's not a spreadsheet. It's
not a perfect thing that you can just put out in a spreadsheet. Okay, here's the decision. We're
going to make it doesn't work that way. All right, here we go. Getting back to the book. Since
more than a century ago, when the rifle bullet began its reign over the battlefield and soldiers
slowly became aware that the day of close order formations in combat was forever gone,
all military thinkers have pondered the need of a new discipline. It has been generally realized
that fashioning the machine to man's use in battle was but half of the problem. The other half
was conditioning man to the machine. The mechanisms of the new warfare do not set their own efficiency
rate in battle. They are ever at the mercy of training methods, which will stimulate the soldier
to express his intelligence and spirit. The philosophy of discipline has adjusted to changing
conditions. So, think about this. Talk about discipline. The philosophy of discipline has adjusted
to changing conditions. As more and more impact has gone into the hitting power of weapons,
necessitating ever widening deployments of the forces of battle,
keep the quality of the initiative in the individual has become the most praised of the military
virtues. So, as we got these weapons that can shoot and kill more people at greater distances,
people got more spread out. The more spread out, people got, the more it becomes important that you
have initiative. Back to the book, it has been readily seen that the prevailing tactical
conditions increase the problem of unit coherence in combat. This, the only offsets or people are
more spread out, the only offset for this difficulty was to train for a higher degree of
individual courage, comprehension of the situation and self-starting character in the soldier.
So, the more spread out people get, the more you have to rely on these individual soldiers to make
the right decisions out there, it's show initiative. That becomes the new discipline. This is
decentralized command. By the way, from this realization, have come new concepts of discipline,
which have altered nearly all the major aspects of life and of human association within Western
armies. We have continued to grapple with the problem of how to free the mind of man,
how to enlarge his appreciation of his personal worth as a unit in the battle, how to stimulate him
to express his individual power within limits, which are good, which are for the good of all.
How do we free the mind? How do we, and notice this is a little dichotomy here,
free the mind to express the individual power, but here's the dichotomy within limits, which are
for the good of all. So, you can't just be doing what's good for you, you can't just express your
for your mind and do whatever you think is right for your own purpose, you need to do it for everyone,
the good for all. Back to the book, it is universally recognized that as the means of war change
so much the intelligence of man be quick and to keep pace with the changes. Our weakness lies in
this that we have never got down to an exact definition of what we are seeking, failing that we fall
short in our attempt to formulate in training how best to obtain it and our philosophy of discipline
falters at the vital point of its practical tactical application. I say that it is a simple thing.
What we need in battle is more and better fire. What we need to seek in training are any
and all means by which we can increase the ratio of effective fire when we have to go to war.
The discipline training methods and the personal policies of our forces should all be regulated
to conform with this one fundamental need. Now, you can see what he's getting out here. This is
his big statement. This is his big hypotheses. So, it's actually, he says, I say it's a simple
thing. We need what we need in battle is more and better fire. That's his big statement. I don't
agree with that. Like there's other things. There's a lot of other things going on in leadership.
I think actually the things that he talked about prior to this are more important than fire.
Descentralized commanded, making people take initiative and having people step up and do the right
thing for the entire team. But with a free mind making these things happen. And for some reason,
he just bypasses all that super important stuff. It says, hey, no, the most important thing. We need
to be more and better fire. Fire is important. Hell, yes. Fire is important. That's why I love
machine gunners. It's all my machine gunners out there. God bless you. You laid down the fire
to all the supporting fire elements out there. Artillery, close air, love you. Thank you. We need
more fire. I agree with that. But that's not, that's not the, it's not the thing that we narrow
everything down to, which is his hypothesis. So, a lot of good information there. He narrows it down
to a different direction. Don't agree with it. And actually I'll go ahead and say,
not true. It's all these factors that we need to improve. Fire is not the sole thing. Fire is
absolutely important. Fire wins fire fights. Absolutely fire maneuver. Cover, move wins fire
fights. It helps. So, fire helps when fire fights doesn't win it on its own. Next chapter is called
on future war. He says the battlefield is the epitome of war. All else in war, when war is perfectly
conducted exists, but to serve the forces of the battlefield and to assure final success on the field.
It is on the battlefield that the issues of war are decided. Check.
Concure. It should be noted that all military power is dependent on civil will.
It is the nation and not the army, which makes war. So, I've talked about that
before the will. You gotta have the will. If you don't have the will as a nation,
you're not going to win. And if talked about it before, the wills you're going to have to
are the wills to the will to kill and the will to die because that's where war is. It's killing and
die. And if you don't have those, if you don't have the will to do those two things, you should not be
entering war. Because the outcome is not going to be good. Every improvement in weapon power is aimed at
lessening the danger on one side by increasing it on the other. Consequently, every improvement in
weapons is eventually met by a counter improvement. That's the jitsu, right? You get the counter.
Come up for the new move. Guess what? Somebody's going to come up with a move to counter it.
That's always happening with weapons. I like this little line right here. Decision in war is a
clenching act. It is the action which finally delivers the victory surely into one's hands. Decision,
decisiveness, making the call. That's what you need to do. Next chapter, man on the battlefield.
On the battlefield, the real enemy is fear and not the bayonet or bullet. All means of union of
power, demand, union of knowledge. That's a quote from Robert Jackson. And he continues here. It is
of the battlefield that I speak in saying that the mind of the infantry soldier should be conditioned
to an understanding of its reality through all stages of his training. And that's one of the reasons
why I heard so many quotes about SLA Marshall is while we were getting trained, people would refer
back to SLA Marshall. And when I ran training, I knew I had to bring it up sometimes because I
'd say, look, here's what's going on. We need to think about this. And I'll get to some of
those points later. But training is methodology when he wrote this book, part of the focus is like,
hey, we need to train people differently. And what he says about training is 100% valid, 100% valid.
Back to the book, he needs to be taught the nature of the field as it is in war and as he may
experience it someday. For if he does not acquire a soldier's view of the field, his image of it
will be formed from the reading of novels or the romance written by war correspondence of which he was
won by the way. Or from the viewing of or from viewing the battlefield as it is imagined to be by
Hollywood. One of the purposes of training should be to remove these false ideas of battle from his mind.
Totally agree. Absolutely. To give the soldier a correct concept of battle is a far different thing
from encouraging him to think about war. So think about what I just said. To give the soldier
a correct concept of battle is a far different thing from encouraging him to think about war.
The latter is to vast the canvas. It includes too much detail which is confusing to his mind and
immaterial to his personal problem. Here's like, don't think about this big picture. You need
to think about what's happening. We have surpassed all other armies and outstripped common
sense in our effort to teach man something about war. He's counted about war's causes, which is a
good thing on which those rare occasions when he is when the instruction isn't qualified hands.
He's told about how the soldiers and sailors of other nations observe, currency and foster
tradition. He is even bored by lectures on the strategy and logistics of high command.
But he does not get what he requires most. The simple details of common human experience on the
field of battle. As a result, he goes to the supremely testing experience of his lifetime as it
almost a total stranger. So you learn all the, you know what, actually when life took over the
junior officer's course coming out of buds, it was very focused on the big picture stuff and it
wasn't helping these guys being prepared to be in a seal putton. And life was like, no, I got to
change this. You can still talk about this stuff and it's important to you don't throw it out.
But you got to teach people what the human experience on the battlefield is and that's what
life tried to do and that's what I try to do and I took over training and my training was further
along when I took it over, you know, we already moved in that direction or it already reflected that.
But a lot of the stuff that life was being taught in life's course was not
the human experience on the field of battle. Life tried to get that in there and he did a good
job of it. Back to the book, the price for failure. So the, so you're talking about to train these
people correctly. The price for failure is paid all up and down the line. Men going to action
the first time, haltingly and gropingly as if they were lost at night in the deep woods,
lives are wasted unnecessarily. Time is lost. Ground that might be taken is overlooked.
It is not necessary that these misfortunes before organizations simply because they are new to
battle. It is possible that the infantry soldier can be trained to anticipate fully the true
conditions of the battlefield. It is possible that units can be schooled to take full and prompt
action against this, against the disunifying effect of these conditions. Fear is ever presence.
But the, but it is the uncontrolled fear that is the enemy of successful operation and the control
of fear depends upon the extent to which all dangers and distractions may be correctly anticipated
and therefore understood. You got to simulate battle. That's what you got to do. And they did a great
job when I was going through my workups. They did a great job of doing that. When I took over
and was running training, we brought it even to the next level. It was freaking mayhem out there.
And I had many people. And we're going to have some guys that are retiring in the future
that are coming on the podcast that went through my workups. They will tell you being an actual
cop. That was easier. There was easier. And that's what my goal was. We want this training to be
so chaotic. And what you think about this right here. And you think about law enforcement training.
Should be the same way. You want these guys completely tested. You want it to be harder than
anybody they ever have to deal with. You want the situation to be more stressful than they're
going to deal with in real life. And that's how you get them prepared. Next, the heart of the
matter is to relate to man is to relate the man to his fellow soldier as he will find him on
the field of combat to condition him to human nature. As he will learn to depend on it when the
ground offers him no comfort and weapons fail. He talks a lot about human nature. I talk a lot about
human nature. When you were when you'd hear about this, oh, this guy or the man this one,
did you know that he was a faker back then? It was yes. But it was, you know, there's two sides to
every story. It seemed like to me until I read about face. And I was like, okay, there's the actual
side. There's the actual side. Because, you know, Hackworth said, look, this is what he actually did.
Here's his military records. So, but up until I read about face, it was kind of like, oh,
that's, oh, there's some weird stuff about his career. But you know, yeah, kind of what is a gray area?
But not everyone. Some people would talk about him like he was the man without any
demarits against him, without any question against him. Right. Which kind of adds to the little
hodgepodge opinions? Yeah. That was a crazy thing. I mean, when Hackworth was just talking
about opening that I read, this is something that is just what you read it, you go, oh, God. So,
he's saying that, Hackworth is saying that basically he, he, he didn't want to bring up the fact.
He stayed on his good side. Right. Hey, he, value his career. Slam had a lot of power. So,
he's just going to stay on his good side. And then he's saying how many other guys were doing that.
How many guys were just staying on SLA Marshall's good side because they wanted to continue their
career and in order to do that, they're like, oh, you know, I'm not going to say anything about it.
Yeah. And that actually bolsters his power because Hackworth at this time,
right, if you get a blessing from Hackworth, it's like, that's real problem. Remember what,
remember what, Mook, Jim Mook, Yama said about Hackworth? He's like, everybody knew Hackworth.
Everybody knew him. He was Mr. Infantry. Coolest nickname ever about it, right?
Yeah. Sure. If I come back in another world, I'm going to do whatever it takes to earn the
nickname Mr. Infantry. That's just as legit as it gets. So, but when you got Hackworth going, oh,
yep, yeah, I work with Slam. Good guy. Right. That's a little, oh, that's Hackworth saying that. So,
it's, it's like, and now there's other generals are saying this because everybody just wants to
protect a little career. I mean, he's saying he was opportunistic. And this is Hackworth coming out,
straight up calling himself guilty. Yeah. So, do you think this happens all the time though, right?
That's what I'm saying. Yeah, that's all the time. So, do you think that it's kind of in a way you're
duty to kind of to call it out? Okay. There's two ways to answer that question. If you call it out,
and it doesn't work, and you get blacklisted by SLA Marshall. And now you don't make rank,
and now you're not in charge, and they shove you off to some billet over and wherever.
Mm-hmm. And now you have no more influence. Did you do a good job?
Did you make a right call? If you play the game and you just go along with it,
and you try and get yourself to a position of power where you can actually have more influence,
and you would have had, and you had to, you had to bite your tongue. Was that the good move?
But what if you didn't really get to where you wanted to be, and now you accelerated him, and he
turned to get, you know, I mean, that's, that's a very tough decision to make, and that's why
that's why you gotta be, that's why you gotta be tactfully, you gotta think about what's going on.
You gotta think about the long-term consequences of what you're about to do. That's why leadership
is challenging. And that's why playing these little political games, which you have to play in every
different organization. People don't think there's political games in the military golf. It's a big political
game. It's a big giant political game. And same thing in companies corporations. That's the way
the world works. You gotta play the game. Yeah. So like even socially, you know, where,
let's say you know a person, and I've been in the situation before, not even necessarily in it.
I'm not saying that. I'm not saying that either, but I'm saying plausible denying,
no, and just came out. They're job-etcrolls. But you know, you know, if somebody who,
there, they're like a complete like faker, dire, and you know, they, they got an orange,
you know, just some same, you know, social scenario where, you know, they have a nice car,
but then they owe like 10 people, like 10s of thousands of dollars because how they screw them over
in something like their friends and all this stuff, right? Yeah. Meanwhile, there's a small group of
people who know all about that stuff. And we see, you know, we'll see, or you'll see this person
as this huge faker going around town as this huge faker. But everyone else who's not in it sees
them as this great person who's like, you know, whatever. Is it your duty on a social level,
same same? Like, to be like, hey, because, you know, I guess it could be said like, hey,
you're kind of protecting other people from getting screwed in that same way. Yeah, for sure.
But at the same time, it's like, yeah, do you, especially if you don't have a dog in the faker?
Actually, look at what, what is this person doing? That's benefiting anyone. If all
they're doing a screw in people over, I'm going to say something for sure. If this person,
if this individual is somehow, you know, running a big charity organization, right? Right? Like,
that's a legit thing, right? That could happen. He's donate money or getting people to donate or
whatever. Maybe I'd try and mitigate it more. But, you know, in a social situation, just first
and just sounds like they're going to screw people over. I think I'm going to, I think I'm going
to drop time. Yeah. Yeah. On one hand, you're kind of like, yeah, let me, let me, and not the kind
you're not going to go on the radio or something and broadcast it. Well, you don't have to go on the
radio or these, right? You don't know, you can go on the social media. No, that's what it mean. But
you're not going to go on and announce these things. It's just like, if it ever comes up. Here's,
you know, here's a situation that could unfold. If you call this person out, now that no,
now they stop whatever form of income they have, now no one that they always money to is actually
going to ever get paid back. Right? Isn't that to be problematic? Yeah. Or you now you have like
a little conflict with this person. Now you got to deal with whatever comes of that. Yeah.
Same thing. It's kind of like, don't like what you call, you need, you know, money, the
waters or whatever. Like don't disturb the waters kind of thing. Yeah. And then hopefully,
which usually actually is the case in such an social situation where they're going to play
themselves anyway. So that's true. And that gets out. You can't like, but I don't like people
taking people's money. Yeah. So I'm going to have a problem with this person. Yeah. That's the bottom
line. Yeah. Fully. And I think most people that's how it is, you know, they're like that's all.
And I think the weird thing is social people that don't, they don't, they don't, they don't
be coming around me if they, I kind of give off the vibe of like, hey, you don't want to be
acting that way around me. Yeah. So I don't have a lot of people like that hanging around. Yeah.
There it is. Going back to the book. Only when human, rather than material aspects of
operation are put up or most, can tactical bodies be conditioned to make the most of their potential
unity. So the human being, he's saying that human beings are more important. It is beyond question
that the most serious and repeated breakdowns on the field of combat are caused by failure of controls
over human nature. I'm going to read that again. It is beyond question that the most serious and
repeated breakdowns on the field of combat are caused by failure of the controls over human nature,
not tactics, not weapons, not machinery, not physical strengths, but human nature.
And guess what, I agree with that. I agree with that. We all grant that the soldier must be trained
for initiative and encourage to think about what is problem while in combat. So again, he talks about
a lot about initiative and that's one of the things that I think was very positive.
That's one of the things that influenced me knowing that it was important for people to have
initiative and knowing that you can't control whatever you want on the battlefield and
understanding decentralized command. Back to the book, our training methods are conditioned by the
ideal of automatic response. So he's saying like we think that the best thing, the best ideal
is just automatic response. That's what we want. At the same time, our observation of the battle
fields reality makes it clear to us that we need men who can think through their situation and steal
themselves for action according to the situation. So we don't want automatic response. We want
people that can think. The thinking soldier, the man who's trained for self-starting, cannot be matured
in a school which holds to the vestiges of the belief that automatic action is the ideal thing
in the soldier. Again, this is undeniable, undeniable. We want people that are think for themselves.
I hold it to be one of the simplest truths of war that the thing which enables an infantry soldier
to keep going with his weapons is the near presence or the presumed presence of a combat.
It happened too frequently in our army that a line company was careless about the manner in which
it was received a new replacement. The stranger was not introduced to his superiors,
nor was there time for him to feel the friendly interest of his immediate associates before
he was ordered forward with the attack. The result was the man's total failure in battle and
has returned to the rear as a mental case. So it is far more than a question of the soldier's
need of physical support from other men. He must have at least some feeling of spiritual unity
with them if he is to do an efficient job of moving and fighting. This is very important. I work
with companies all the time. So you take a army unit and you throw a random guy in there, a random
replacement and no one meets him and no one talks to him and also they're going on and attack. He's
going to fail. That's the statement because he doesn't under he doesn't know anyone else and he
goes more into detail in the in the book. But that happens with companies where they have some
new new person check on board they get hired they check on board, no one meets him, no one greets him,
no one becomes friends with them, they're in their own isolated little world, the pressure starts to
come and they bail or they break. He talks more about this in chapter four which is called combat
isolation and there's a quote that it starts off from major general Charles W. O. Daniel and it says,
the finest theories in most my new plans often crumble. Complex systems fall by the wayside
parade ground formations disappear are splendidly trained leaders vanish. The good men which we
had at the beginning are gone. The raw truth is before us. That's good. Yeah and obviously
law of combat number two keep things simple. That's exactly what he's talking about. You got to keep
things simple but he's also saying that everything that you come up with these complex things they're
going to fall apart and combat. That's what happens. And now we talk about the name of the
chapters combat isolation and he starts talking about what it's like when these soldiers get on the
battlefield he's talking about the battlefield's cold and it's harsh and it's empty and there's it's
chills a man's soul is what he's saying and then when the fire starts here we go back to the
book he finds himself suddenly almost alone in his hour of greatest danger and he can feel the
danger but there is nothing out there, nothing to contend against. It is from the mixture of
mystification and fear that there comes the feeling of helplessness which in turn produces greater fear.
That is what green troops are up against. Time and again I have heard them say after their first
triacombat by God there was never a situation like it. We saw no one we were fighting phantoms
and as frequently they have and as frequently they have added this though their convictions about
the matter were holy at odds with the fact of the situation we had to do it all alone we got no
support on either flank. So he's talking about the fact that we you feel alone on the battlefield
and the fact that guys would come back and say even though they were fully supported it didn't matter
they thought they were alone out there and that's what he's talking about he goes on. The enemy
now he's talking about fire fights situation the enemy fire builds up it's aim becomes true
or the man spread the men spread further and further from each other moving individually to whatever
cover is nearest or forwards the best protection a few of them fire their pieces at first they do so
almost timidly as if fearing a rebuk for wasting ammunition when they do not see the enemy.
Others do nothing some fail to act mainly because they are puzzled what to do and their leaders do
not tell them. Others are wholly unnerved and can either think nor move in sensible relation to
the situation such response as the men make of two enemy fire tends mainly to produce greater
separation in the elements of the company thereby intensifying the in-tenceifying the feeling
of isolation and the insecurity of its individuals. The junior leaders are affected as much as
the rifle files. So when chaos starts people start to be alone again this can apply the battlefield
this can apply the business world when chaos starts people start to focus on their own little
world and the more you focus on your own little world the more separation there is the less
unity there is in your unit to make something happen now he goes on back to the book could one
clear commanding voice be raised even though it be the voice of an individual without
titular authority they would obey or at least the stronger characters would do would do so
and the weaker would begin to take heart because something is being done. I got to see this over
when I was running training I got to see this over and over and over and over again as my
fact we lay for chapter about it in the decademy leadership of situations where one situation
particular where there's no voice no one's taking charge finally someone steps up and take
charge and it's like boom everything changes but clear commanding voices are all too rare on the
battle on the field of battle so they wait doing nothing and in action takes further toll on their
resolve more grievous losses will no doubt come to this band of men in time but as a company this is
the worst hour that they will ever know so it's a downward spiral if no one steps up and starts
making calls you start taking casualties now if people panic even more they get more in their own
little world they become more detached from each other less unity of what you're trying to make happen
back to the book it would serve no purpose to dwell on the discouraging detail of this or
deal if it were not for the belief that much of it is unnecessary and that the infantry soldier can
find a better way one must not come to rest on class vets gloomy warning that quote in war the novice
is met only by pitch black knight on beyond that there are words to be read it is of the first
importance that the soldier higher low should not have to encounter in war things which seem for the
first time set him in terror or perplexity so that's calls for it's talking about training you
got to get people ready for this chaos and mayhem you've got to get it get them ready for it you've
got to get them ready you got to show them that when people panic and people are getting separated
that one commanding voice one leader stepping up and leading will have a massive impact on the
situation and failure to do that will also have a massive but the impact but it will be a massive negative
impact now he talks chapter five is called ratio of fire and here we get into his little hypothesis
I'm not going to waste a lot of time out of it but I'm going to bring it up back to the book now
I do not think I've seen it stated in the military manuals of this age or in any of the writing
's meant for the instruction of those who lead troops that a commander of infantry will be well
advised to believe that when he engages the enemy not more than one quarter of his men will
ever strike a real blow unless they are compelled by almost overpowering circumstances or unless
all junior leaders constantly ride herd on troops with specific mission of increasing their fire
the 25% estimate stands for even for well trained and campaign season troops I mean that 75%
will not fire or will not persist in firing against the enemy and his works
these men may face danger but will not fight so that's his hypothesis and actually the beginning
of this book has a forward in it that I'm just going to touch on the forwards written by a guy named
Russell Glenn and he he points out some of the disputes against this about this low ratio of fire
so here we go back to the book this is the introduction so this isn't SLA Marshall this is from the
introduction from Russell Glenn Marshall's ratio of fire values did not go unchallenged even when they
first appeared in 1947 general James and Gavin World War II commander of the 82nd airborne division
discounted the low estimates as did Harry W.O. Kennard who served in the 101st airborne division
in every one of its combat actions during World War II and later commanded the first cavalry
division in Vietnam legendary general Bruce Clark commander of the US forces that defended St. Viff
during the battle of the bulge flatly discounted Marshall finding his values ridiculous and dangerous
assertions absolute nonsense another combat veteran british author George McDonald Fraser
instead question Marshall's explanation for why soldiers failed to engage the enemy
Fraser had served so one of the things that Marshall says is that people aren't are taught not to
kill and you know it's against the commandments of God and it's bad to kill and so that's one of the
things we have a moral and inherent moral objection to killing and so so this guy Donald Fraser
Fraser had served in Burma as an infantryman though he recognized that moral upbringing might influence
men's behavior his first-hand experience failed to support Marshall's rationale Fraser wrote that
we all have kindly impulses fostered by 2,000 years of Christian teaching gentle Jesus and love
thy neighbor but we have the killer instinct too the murderous impulse of the hunter
and so the introduction of the book goes on and talks about many vets that just outright deny this
and I do too and I never saw I never saw or felt any hesitation or saw anyone that I was with
hesitate in any way to engage in fact quite the opposite most guys were more than ready to get after it
and I'm not just talking about seals I'm talking about army infantrymen I'm talking about marines
the guys are guys are not hesitating I mean broadly you could never make a statement like this
could you make a statement that some people hesitate yes you could make that statement but to
broadly say that only 15 to 25% of people are going to actively engage the enemy from everything I saw
that's patently untrue now the advantage and what we had for an advantage and
martial kind of claims this too is that once World War II is over and they started training us
to shoot at one of the big objections it has that that guys were getting trained to shoot bulls
eye targets right so that your training is shoot a bulls eye when you first see a man you're like oh no
that's a man we my whole career I'd barely ever shot a bulls eye target we did that when we had to
qualify with a rifle or pistol every single other time we shot we were shooting a man shaped target
I mean we would shoot little round targets what were they called head plates right we're shooting at
heads we're shooting body shots we're shooting that's what we do all the time and we shoot
so we shoot targets with pictures on them with faces on them that look like people and then on top
of that we did force on force training where we're actually shooting paint balls or semi-unition
at other human beings and we're gunning them down so there's a lot of conditioning that we had that
maybe that's why we were so much more apt and able and willing to shoot but yeah it's from you know
you can see from what these other vets said and these other leaders said and my personal experience
and you'll find that I think SLA martial like I said I think you just had a hypothesis you
wanted to talk about and threw it out there without really good facts behind it so I'm not going
to waste a bunch of time talking about that and I'm going to go into the next chapter fire is the cure
finally it is the volume of fire that counts you win if you kill more of the enemy than
he can kill a view if you cannot you're defeated that's secretary of war robber p pattern and again
I'll go back to this fire counts for sure it's important but you got him maneuver it's covered
move it's not just covering fire it's like you got to cover and move that's that's to me
they go hand in hand which actually he says back the book fundamentally fire must always be beaten
by fire fundamentally movement is the means of increasing the efficiency of ones own fire until
the last strength of the enemy's fire is reduced to a vanish point okay I mean okay if you want to say
that you're maneuvering so that you can maneuver so you can fire even better that's that's technically
true or your maneuvering so you can break contact but you could say that here's another quote
let us not think of mobility in an army general Charles P. Summer all once said unless we think
of mobility accompanied by violence that's cover move that's fire maneuver that's what we're talking
about combat can cannot ever approximate the conditions of field maneuvers fears of varying
sort of afflict the soldier in battle the unit commander soon comes to realize that one of his
difficulties is to get men to leave cover because of enemy bullets and the fear they instill in training
they're being no real bullet danger even on the courses which employ live ammunition every
advance under a supposed enemy fire is unrealistic two in training the soldier does not have a man
as his target he is not shooting with the idea of killing there is a third vast difference in the
two conditions the riflemen in training is usually under close observation and the chief pressure
upon him is to give satisfaction to his superior whereas the riflemen engaging the enemy is
of necessity pretty much on his own and the chief pressure on him is to remain alive if possible
when the infantry men mind when the infantry men's mind is gripped by fear his body is captured
by inertia which is fears semi-situin in an attack half of the men on a firing line are in terror
and the other half are unnerved so wrote major general jfc fuller when he was a young captain so
again this is what i kind of already talked about the idea that in training you're shooting at
you're not shooting with this intent to kill and we that's what we did all the time I mean
that's just how we rolled if actually they make targets were like blood comes out we shoot and
balloon blows up and black you see blood so they're trying to condition you and they talk about
this with video games too right that these young kids come up killing all the time in these video
games which are very very realistic and therefore they get conditioned to killing and they
don't think it's a big deal anymore which clearly that you could tie that into
school shootings a lot of people tie that into school shootings and say hey these kids were
playing these video games where there's killing people all the time and that condition them
to be able to kill these innocent people in a school so there is like I said for me all I ever
shot at basically was human targets things that look like people and again I've seen the video games
that they are so realistic it's unbelievable and so that's another good form of conditioning
to get you over the if you have any moral objection to killing now the the counter statement to that
is good for people to get over the moral condition of killing some people no if you're not a soldier
that's probably a bad thing I would say yeah yeah even the video game thing it seems like there's
like a step before that to for someone to get conditioned to killing because I don't know obviously
might in less intense video game experiences like PlayStation 2 which seems like a long time ago but
so yeah the video games are realistic but it seems like that they they have to get past a certain
step to consider the video games as being training so you guys like when you guys were you know
and see training you know in the seal team you guys are specifically training for that specific thing
that was on your mind so you're past the point of the moral objection part of it seems
saying so let's say you weren't past the moral objection part of it and you were just
shooting what if you'd be video games or shooting at the range or shooting at these other
things and you were like hey I know this is I'm not training for anything specifically I'm just
sort of doing it whether it be for fun or to get better at shooting or better at this game or whatever
if you're not past the moral objection part is it really training you to be less more morally
well let's say if you're a kid that's like got some major issues and you're thinking about
doing a school shooting and then you're sitting there playing these video games and you're
killing people over and over again it's conditioning yeah yeah that's what I mean you put
anyone in a you know you get someone that works in a slaughterhouse they don't think twice about
killing a pig or killing a cow or whatever that's what they do they don't think a millisecond
about it whereas you take someone that's never seen an animal killed before and it'll be
disturbing to them so that right there is that they're conditioning is a thing right and if you
watch a bunch of you know a bunch of videos of something being killed you'd become conditioned to it
and if you play a game where you kill people all the time you will become conditioned to it
now I don't think this is even debatable yeah but I feel yeah I agree but I feel like there's this
one kind of crucial step before that like you'd consider a slaughterhouse person like there's a
difference between working in a slaughterhouse and being conditioned to the sight and the smell
and the experience of doing it but not having the barrier that's like okay I'm gonna make a
decision to do this under you know a different circumstance something that's more more
morally tied well yeah I mean in let's face the factors millions and I'm others 100
of millions of people that play video games all day long and they're not going out there and
I have no intention of going out there but okay so yeah I see what you're saying if you start thinking
that way and that becomes your intent then it is conditioning because you can even consider someone
on the opposite where let's say they're morally what do you call them moral barrier has been
crossed in their head or they're weird they're psychopath I don't know you know and they're brain
and then they've never killed anyone or anything like that so I heard it actually read this thing
on Saddam Hussein's son son's devil and so the first time how they'd quote him quote
condition them they'd be like hey you know here's some prisoners shoot him kill him right so the
first time now the first time not can these kids not conditioned in this way to you know to have
the experience of killing somebody and watch them die and whatever so the first time they
give them the gun they got you the kids shoots and what empties the clip right the kid was
passed them that moral barrier long time ago but first time unconditioned as far as the experience
goes he turns to the guard and goes hey can I have another magazine to do it so he really liked it
he didn't need necessarily conditioning because he was passed that more apart so him saying yeah
so yeah it feels like they are they are two separate things but once you kind of cross that
that initial moral barrier oh yeah the more conditioned you are the you know the more
effect I mean I hate these were the effect but more into it you are or the less impact it'll have
like on your brain or whatever yeah and again we would get this is one of the things we get
quoted on SLA Marshall was this stuff about how as the targets got more realistic it encouraged
people and made them more comfortable with shooting and killing that's the point um
then I believe yeah that's true it's true so it is going back to the book as another
experiment unwilling riflemen may have maybe switched to heavier and more decisive one man
weapons this sounds like a paradox to expect greater response to come from increased
responsibility this is good so he said you got a rifleman that doesn't want to shoot give him a
bigger more effective weapon he says this sounds like a paradox to expect greater response to
come from increased responsibility but it works I've seen many cases were men who had
funked it badly with a rifle responded heroically when given a flame thrower or a bar
self-pried and the ego are the touchstone of most these remarkable conversions a man may fail
with the rifle because he feels anonymous and believes it nothing important is being asked of him
so that's pretty cool because I talk about this all the time why could the earth because everyone
has a rifle and he's like okay let's not really but I'm not really that important yeah
then you give him like a heavy weapon or heavy machine gun or a flame thrower and also he's like
oh yeah I'm the man I'm going to step up and make this happen which if I've talked about this many
times on the podcast you get someone that's not doing their job or they need to do a better job
or what have you if you can give them more responsibility they have a good chance of actually
stepping up and making things happen root off the red nose reindeer not familiar with the
what yeah don't have familiar with root off the red nose yeah okay so root off was the only one
with the red nose and before they were like they used to tease him and all this stuff you know
so he's he thought he was inferior but when Santa was like hey your nose is so bright
won't you guide my slate or tonight I get to guide the slay hell yeah steps up does the job there you
don't see check yeah see you get it that out if you want to no reds the same thing conceptually
conceptually all right next back to the book and last if we are to strengthen sound training principles
and establish mental attitudes which are essential to the understanding of the decisive
importance of fire in tactics we will be well advised to cease talking about fire and movement
as if the latter were separate and apart from the former in tactical fact there and there did
not exist an automatic and unbreakable connection between them so now he's saying the same thing
that I was saying earlier is fire is not more important they're the same thing fire maneuver
cover move half to happen together that's what he's saying fire is the key to mobility
to fire is to move so he goes on now this next section again this is great because
next section is called the multiples of information the multiples of information and what's great
about this is he's no longer talking about he's no longer talking about tactics of fire maneuver
and this percentage of fire and all that because he's out of his element there to be quite honest
with you this one he's going to get into his element which is well I'll go to it
I consider to be of utmost importance the keeping informed of our man as to current situation
so that each man may perform his duty with understanding of its importance and that's sergeant
David T. Bolt in a letter written from the African theater so you gotta keep your people informed
having started to call this chapter communications I decided against it for fear
that use of that rather formidable word might interfere with my communicating to the reader
what I regard as a vital but frequently overlooked principle of minor tactics if a word
comes to mean too many things it frequently misses fire at the critical point that has been the
fate of the word communications it has become another military catch all and because it means so many
things it is quite frequently means nothing to illustrate a regimental commander asks a company
commander how are your communications and the latter replies excellent because his telephone line
is working and his supply is coming forward and at the same time he is at the point of despair
because he hasn't had anything worthwhile any worthwhile intelligence from his flanks for hours
so there's a difference between communication like I can talk to you and actual communication
you're telling you what I need to know one would think that it would become almost second
nature to the commander to reach eagerly toward supporting forces one would imagine that whenever
on the field of battle he made contact with a friendly element that fact would flash a red light
in his brain causing him automatically to raise the question have I established full communications
do I know the strength and intentions of the force now helping me do they know my strength and
intentions but indeed such is not the case communications
information is the soul of morale and combat and the balancing force in successful tactics
and now he talks a little bit about communication he gives some guidelines about him
and what the problems are so information is super important here's some of the problems one
there is a lacking there is lacking a general recognition of the supreme importance of the lateral
flow of information two command at the lower levels is too often neglectful of the principle
that it is not a channel of information only but a distribution point so you got to pass the word
three commanders at the lower levels tend to be arbitrary judges of what information deriving from a
source lower would be highly useful to the other elements lowered down instead of a biting
by the rule went and out pass it along so went and out pass along now I do have to throw out
that there can be a dichotter there's a dichotter because you can communicate things too much
you can send too many emails you can send too many messages you can do that that can be a problem
and he actually talks about that dichotter me a little bit so he's just talked about how much
you should communicate and then he gets to this point back to the book in the Pacific flighting
I found company commanders joining a platoon in the line just to isolate themselves from their
telephones they were literally tired to death of having the battalion commander insist on having a
fresh progress report every 15 or 20 minutes and the battalion commander poor devil was only
passing on the pressure which he had in turn received from a regimental commander who is trying to
playkate division yet one would observe that unless a battalion commander is wholly lacking in judgment
or intestinal fortitude he should be strong enough to take this on his aching back and not pass it
down to the headquarters which is at grips with the enemy this happens all the time in the military
for sure the senior commanders going I want to know what's going on and tell us that to the next
junior guys is alright I'm all find out what's going on and that guy says I'll find out what's going on
and the people in the front line they can't even fight because they're too busy trying to answer
the damn questions from up the chain of command so don't let that happen back to the book in the
burden island fight during the invasion of the marshals one of these prodding demands for more
progress raised from division right through lower headquarters to a platoon which had been stopped
cold by japfire coming from spider holes arranged in great depth along the beach the lieutenant
got the message and crawling forward to the his most advanced riflemen told him to get up and go on
the boy screamed so the whole goddamn army wants me to want to kill me does it okay lieutenant
here I go but watch what happens he was shot dead almost before he had gotten out of his tracks
that incident seared deep into the brain of every man who witnessed it it was final judgment on
the futility of that kind of leading decentralized command who's going to make a better call somebody
back in the rear or this lieutenant that's there on the beach back to the book the all two frequent
consequences of such pressure are lying exaggeration and distortion of the situation at lower
levels resulting in a false concept of the situation at the higher the average company commander can
stand only a limited amount of this heat and then he will knock over a couple of outhouses
and report that he has captured a village. It also this effect also makes a wishful thinker of the
most objective shoulder he reads he reads into himself I'll have that position in another hour
so I'll tell him that I have it now and get them off my back so lots about communication being
important next is the riddle of command many headquarters people become strangers to the front
and cannot speak its language or understand its tribulations okay the you don't know what's going
on the front lines if you don't have any idea if you can't even speak their language anymore you
need to get down there you need to find out what's going on on the front lines businesses that
means you too the diabolical effect of even such a relatively simple instrument as the field
telephone is that it may come to command the commander the phone actually gets control of you it
chains into a system of remote control at first he sees it only as a successful as a useful
channel for quick communication and combat then he fears to leave it less it should require his
presence in headquarters the moment after he leaves to go forward this state of mind in turn creates
its own illusion fostering that fostering the conclusion that under the new system of war all
matters can be settled at a distance all problems arising within the zone of fire can be fully
understood without ever going there and all moral values which once attended the commander
effort to impress his men with his personality and character are somehow sundered by the new technology
of operations out of sedentary general ship arises evil of troops which while obeying mechanically
have no organic thinking response to the commander's will so i mean how how poignant is this
first what we live in today right everyone thinks they can just send a text message in the problem
solved make a quick phone call on the problem solved and actually the reality is sometimes you
need to get down there you also the whole thing about it controlling you you know i mean
do you ever forget your do you have that at all like when you leave your phone at home or in
the car something like that where you don't have it for like yeah you know i don't forget things
a lot so i don't that doesn't really happen me a lot but yeah i would say if if i left my phone
somewhere i would be like oh dang i want to try and call me right now one if there's an emergency
going on yeah what's weird but you know back in the day when we're you know whatever
teenagers or whatever pre cell phones pre cell phone yeah there was no internet i was telling
my kids the other day that when i was a kid there was no internet that was not a thing yeah that's
like saying there's no roads yeah for that that this is the same thing yeah for my kids they're like
what they were looking me like what what did you believe i didn't you know just because you
you had to go to the library no to look something up get an encyclopedia i remember thinking
in cyclopedias were were like holy yeah i don't know mean there were so in dictionaries i
thought that was like a like a holy book i filled my mom at a ad a ad an oe de oxford english dictionary
not the the four one is a volume the four one is twenty six volumes or something crazy like
but my mom had one that was big i mean it was big it was six inches thick yeah it was like six
maybe six inches thick and big and it had little tabs little indentations bigger yeah you think
about it but to me that thing seemed like some kind of bible yeah some kind of just seems
so filled with knowledge and if you didn't know what a word was you just had to go look it up
and that thing you didn't know what a thing was you look it up in the encyclopedias you go
library and look it up in the encyclopedias nowadays you're three seconds away you got that
google yeah you want to look in the dictionary dot com dictionary dot com bo need those fingers
unless you got that really the app oh you the app won't even better because you got to
want to get that etymology of the word to you on the word it comes on that stuff yeah
then you got what what's the the street language what is that one uh uh uh uh uh uh uh
urban dictionary yeah that's kind of fun balance alert but here's the thing it's weird it's like
it is fun and it's funny but it's very useful because you know when people they'll say stuff
and you're like wait wait I had to look some things up on urban dictionary a couple times i'm trying
to think of a good example right now but i can't think of one next time i will i will note
that it cuz you know i got teenage kids so sometimes they got some words yeah you got to know
that's like we're saying something a couple years ago hi fee remember i don't remember that
oh well that's not all that's new hi fee what does it mean well i don't know if i can define
it specifically but it means like get fired up like it's like dope oh okay hi fee okay
oh fifty cent or somebody i don't know anyway but yeah but that's the thing though you you
lose or you forget yourself on you go to the store i don't know you go to the vans and you leave
by accident or whatever your phone at home it's like oh yeah and just like how you said
you got those thoughts like oh what if there's an emergency what if someone's calling me kind of
thing yeah all you got to do is black press it calls yeah yeah or this is the one day that there's
like any emergency i'm not to say that you can't have an emergency you totally can't but it's like
of literally the 99.99 99 99 9% of the time you have access to that phone that one teeny tiny
sliver of time that you don't oh now all the emergency is gonna come soon say and you think back
to when you when there was no cell phones it's like how did you ever get along no i'm doing that right
now i'm going with my cell phone but everyone around here's a thing though with that everyone around
you kind of feel the same thing so like for example if you go to the store or if i go to the
store people know i go to the store or people know i went to store my wife knows you know
maybe if i'm like hanging out with friends or i'm gonna store real quick right we're having a barbecue
I don't know they expecting me to have my phone and i expect to have a phone so it's like that
communication now communication the standard of communication is way higher now yeah so you say like
you're access to someone else is okay one thing that is a kind of a bummer and i you know for a long
time i responded to like everybody that reached out to me and and i just can't i mean i can't do it
i just i would be doing nothing but sitting around doing that yeah and it's really cool man i
get letters and emails and facebook and dms on you know and i just don't have time and i feel bad
you know i read most everything but it's been getting crazy and here's the thing and i think
this is important to understand overall for kind of you for sure for everyone when someone you know
how like someone will text you or someone will send you like a message like a long message and some
it's easy to think like hey you could have responded with like just something you know rather
than nothing but here's the thing it that's not true because someone sends you a text message or
especially something long and meaningful like you don't want to just reply back with okay or okay
a text you later more about this message that that makes way less sense you want to have something
kind of thought out yeah so it's not just a small little response or you who doesn't have time
to send one text well the thing is yeah physically sending the text doesn't take any time
but to consider you're a valid or appropriate response to most text and in a special in your case
where you get messages legit messages you can just be like cool yeah and then move on to the next
thing you can't do that so you gotta like consider all these things and then all that consideration
that's what takes the time yeah and mental energy by the way like like for like you can't go
in one direction mentally and just pivot real quick and be like yeah let me just mentally accommodate
this you know it's like man it takes more thought than that so it's hard to fit it all in
especially for you know it is man i feel bad when i can't get back to people but i appreciate them
reaching out and letting me know that they're getting good information right whether it's work
related whether it's individual person related their kids whatever warrior i mean all kinds of
good stuff and i'm so stoked but like you said it's like like i can't literally just cannot
see that's tried yeah yeah yeah and i tried so i posted uh today i was like hey it's Monday
sometimes life gets up or hand you gotta go you gotta attack yeah and that's why i was feeling
this weekend i was like because i've been on the road we went to Maine didn't get a lot of work
done to Maine because we were working in Maine we were rolling and then we were working in recording
podcasts and interviewing and all that stuff so didn't have a lot of time out there got a little
bit behind life got the upper hand on me and so i was kind of feeling it on when i got home and
then when i said it was oh you know what i'm gonna do so Sunday i just i'm just gonna work all day
just get just get busy get the upper hand because people were talking about the kids podcast
hip podcast yeah where's the other you know hey hey my kids love listening to it
when listening to it for the we're listening to the first 16 episodes for the ninth time now
can you make another one or are you giving up on that like oh those are straight up five times
yeah so so i got after that recorded some of that today but well that's what i did go on
the attack like and that really does it really like by the end by by the end of Sunday i was like
oh i got and i thought i thought it's gonna be a late night on Sunday i thought midnight
which you know i don't want to go to bed a midnight on the Sunday night i got to god
done it's like 945 at night i was like oh yeah and i was ahead i was back ahead but i had to get
aggressive i had to dig deep i had to go like okay this is what's going on so if you start feeling
that little life's getting the upper hand if you if you let it continue to maneuver on you
it's gonna get worse if you go oh oh you think you're gonna get the upper hand i mean watch this
i'm gonna get aggressive i'm gonna knock out so much stuff in the next 24 hours you're not
gonna know what just happened son yeah so that's how i went at you know as is actually i
made the video on monday technically it was a Sunday evolution but by the time monday
little around i was back in the game yeah that's too hard it's good like if you get the or
it's something someone else something else gets to the upper hand it's like dang you got to
work double time just so it doesn't have the upper hand any more once you get the upper hand okay
yeah you can boom you can find your way the way when when you get the upper hand
it's like when you're playing a sport and the team starts to get the little upper hand and then
they just they can start taking a little bit more risks they get a little bit more confident yeah
and they get them will match yeah they get them momentum and they start going and that's productive
right that they they widen that score run up the score boy and so that's the same thing i'm thinking
but i had me on the ropes a little bit you know it was on the ropes i was on the ropes over here and
i had to think i had to get it i woke up early and i was just boom i'm gonna start hammering
and that's what you got to do finished reading a book wrote another book edited a book i had to
postak a stuff come get some be aggressive okay so the communication things here's the other
thing that happens with modern communications text messaging emails you start losing that little
personal touch which is important here we go back to the book with his characteristically warm
humor general Eisenhower has commented on the value of the personal factor in the command
relation to his men under the conditions of modern war i found that it did a great deal of good
to get down to my troops in the combat area my presence relax them and made them feel more comfortable
about the situation but i was not deceived as to the reason i knew what was running through
their minds they were saying to themselves there must be less danger than we thought or the old man
wouldn't be here yeah get down talk the troops here we talk about this is a part of the nature
of the combat soldier once he loses that faith it becomes very difficult to resolve it he will
lose it very quickly when he sees that casualties are wasted on useless operations or when he
begins to feel that he is in any respect the victim of bad planning or faulty concepts that's
important then he responds to that principle which was once well stated by general james harbored
discipline and moral influence the inarticulate vote that is constantly taken by masses of men when
the order comes to move forward when the order comes to move forward a variant of the crowd
psychology that inclines it to follow a leader but the army does not move forward until the motion is
carried unanimous consent only follows cooperation between the invid individual men in ranks
that's a bold statement like hey you can give that order but until everybody kind of knows that
it's a good plan we're not knowing here's another good statement by rough approximation 60% of the
art of command is the ability to anticipate 40% of the art of command is the ability to improvise
to reject the preconceived idea that has been tested and proved wrong in the crucible of
operations and to rule by action instead of acting by rules that's a good one by the way that's the
entire art of command that's 100% anticipation and ability to improvise obviously there's some more
factors those are some important ones and I don't think I pulled it out but there's also one
part in the book where it says anticipation is important but it's but it's you can't just say someone hey
anticipate harder and anticipate more it's hard to say to that someone someone's got to have experience
someone's got to have the mindset for it they got to they got to free their mind it open their
minds so that they can be aware of little nuances that are happening and changes that are occurring
and you can't be down in the weeds or else you can't anticipate anything because you're getting
knocked around in the dust and the dirt yeah so it's kind of like a pay attention kind of thing like
it's a it's a way of paying attention I think really the key is detachment because if you can't
detach you're not going to be able to anticipate anything because you're in and that's why there's
obviously dichotomy here yeah do you want to go down and be with the troops absolutely but can you
go down and be with troops so much that you lose track of what's happening at a strategic level
and you can't anticipate what's happening no you can't do that dichotomy leadership you got
to balance it back to the book during war it often time happens that one company by trial and
error finds the true solution for some acute problem which concerns everyone but when that happens
to a company I can assure you that is the exceptional company officer who takes the initiative and
passes it passes his unique solution along to his superiors even after he has proved and
battle that the idea works a good company idea in tactics is likely to remain confined to one company
indefinitely even though it would be a benefit to the whole military establishment this is
where this is just dealing with silos it happens in the military it happens in the civilian sector
somebody figures something out make keep to themselves the fundamental purpose of all training today
should be to develop the natural faculties and to stimulate the brain of the soldier rather than
to treat him as a cog which has been fitted into a great machine got to keep point that out
loyalty in the masses of men wax is strong in the degree that they are made to believe that
real importance is attached to their work and to their ability to think about their work
so you got to get people engaged and people got to understand and believe that what they're
doing is important and they got to have some kind of say they got to have some control over their own fate
it weakens at every point where they consider that there is a negative respect for their intelligence
this rule applies whether a man is engaged in digging a ditch or in working up a loading table
for an invasion so if you have negative respect for people's intelligence they're not going to do a good job
big chunk a little bit of a big chunk here to square training with a reality of war it becomes a necessary
part of the young officer's mental equipment for training to instill in him the full realization
that in combat many things can and will go wrong without it being anyone's fault in particular
so what did I just say things are going to happen is no one's fault does that really
does that really marry up with the idea of extreme ownership well not really great because I'm
taking ownership of anything however keep listening war is aimed at destruction the fire and general
purpose of the enemy are directed against one's own personnel material and communications with the
objective keeping one's own design from coming into play small plans miscarried because the wrong
man happens to be hit at the critical moment or the guns which were counted on are knocked out of action
the problem of command in battle is ever to establish a safe margin which will allow for such
misadventure there you go so things are going to go wrong but what you have to take ownership of is
figuring out how you're going to have a plan that's going to overcome those problems back to the
book but this much is certain there is no system of safeguards known to man which can fully
eliminate the consequences of accident and mischance in battle hence the only final protection
is the resiliency and courage of the commander and his subordinates so what does that mean when something
goes wrong when something bad happens you adapt you adjust you you alter your plans and you continue
forward you own it it therefore follows that the far object of a training system is to prepare the
combat officer mentally so that he can cope with the unusual and the unexpected as if it were the
altogether normal and give him poise in a situation where all else is in disequilibrium
say all over and over again and how do you do that how do you do that in the civilian sector right
prepare your people you role-play with people you give them hard problems you make them figure things out
you put them in tough situations so that they become accustomed to it but how to do it I would say
that the beginning lies in a system of schooling which puts the emphasis on teaching soldiers how to
think rather than what to think even though such a revolutionary idea would put the army somewhat ahead
of our civilian education that's a common thing that gets said in military training is teaching
people how to think not what to think and this is a good the test of fitness of command is the
ability to think clearly in the face of unexpected contingency or opportunity improvisation is the
essence of initiative in all combat just as initiative is the outward showing of the power of decision
think about this when you're raising your kids too that's a good little something to think about
you want your kids to be able to think think get that's what we got to have doing some creative
stuff right sure jiu jitsu's creative but you got to throw some other stuff out back to the book the
darkest hour for the novice in war comes with the recoil after the unit has been had badly hit
it is then that the young commander has greatest need of the friendship and steadiness of his
superior or of any other officer whose judgment he respects criticism or tactical counsel are of
no value at this time they can be given that later of necessary but in the wrong hour they add to the
hurt led him get out his crying towel when he has told how it happened the important thing is that he
be given a pat on the back and insurance and assurance that he did his full duty and some little
reminder that while he may feel that his losses are excessive such incidents are unavoidable
feature of combat and do not keep one from coming back in the next round in secret in sick
freed sassons memories of an infantry man the young lieutenant tells of emerging from a bloody
trench raid and meeting his kernel this was kind kernel kynjak i'd never met before and it was the
first time i had ever shared any human equality with him he spoke kindly to me in his rough way
and in doing so he made me very thankful that i had done what i could so i mean this is a very
important especially for folks that are in the military or in services where you can take losses
and that is when you're in charge it's the time is not then to provide tactical counsel
right that's not the time first you got to let the person get over the emotional hump help them through
that and if you got to go back and debrief later that's what you do i think everybody needs to pay
attention to that and i mean you could say the same thing for businesses you know if somebody
makes a big mistake and they feel bad about it and it hurts them or they get people fired
they cost a bunch of money or something like you might not want to jump on their back immediately
a man remains a man after he puts on a soldier suit death in the company is like a death in the
family talk relieves tension okay talk relieves tension this is a tough one because guess what
some people when something bad happens you know what they want to do they want to be left alone
and yet it's talked that relieves tension and getting that out of which i agree with but
again you gotta be tactful there's a dichotomy you just can't go hey man or you really want to
talk to you about what happened it's like hey maybe that person needs a little time maybe
that person needs a little space but you can't give them too much time because they're going to
sit there and dwell on it so pay attention the unit which fights successful action but is
without knowledge of its success may even ensure a great victory for some larger body and still
emerge from the battlefield with a feeling of inferiority it's a complex sentence but what are you saying
is like you make sure when your people do something good you tell them because there's a lot of
times where people don't people don't understand what they did and how big of an impact it had
and that's bad mmm here's a good one in combat nothing succeeds like success the knowledge of
victory is the beginning of a conviction of superiority just as truly the saver of one small triumph
will wholly drive out the bitter taste of any number of demoralizing defeats nothing succeeds like success
now we get in this section tactical cohesion important I think about that you know there's a
story and extreme ownership about the boat crews in the boat crew doing well and sometimes people
say what you know what do the guy that do do different well the new leader do and I always say well
what he got the team to do is get everyone in the boat rolling the boat in the same direction
at the same time like if you can do that you're winning if you can do that as a leader if you can
get everybody in the boat rolling the boat in the same direction at the same time you're going to win
and you'd be surprised how often I see companies I see business I see military units where
people are not rolling the boat in the same direction at the same time so that's what tactical
cohesion is tactical he's just how can we get people to be working together and here we go
getting the troops to that cohesiveness back to the book it may be done through one bold individual
standing erect and saying to a few others follow me we are going on if a few rise and follow
the entire line is apt to get in motion on the other hand if this same individual advances alone
but says nothing it is unlikely that he will have any followers one word come makes his action
tenfold as effective as if he plunges gauntly ahead in silence the act of moving is initiative
the act of coupling motion with speech is thinking initiative and important very important
here's talk about getting a gunfight the first thing you do is you hit the ground as reestablish
contact with your men determine where they are and let them know where you are this this happens
in business to something bad happens and we all go into panic mode and start focusing on
our world as a leader you need to say okay guys here's what's going on here's where I am here's what we're
going to do leadership leadership leadership leadership leadership the majority of small unit leaders
do not take any steps toward restoring control from which alone can come unity of action
some try to contact their men by voice or by relay a voice during an action while the
matter prone the voice will rarely carry more than 25 feet this means that unless there is a relay
of all hands under and and all hands understand what is being attempted the voice method is ineffective
in the seal teams when somebody yells out a command everybody says it and it's the best it's the coolest
thing it's not the coolest thing but it's pretty cool when you hear that word getting past
and you hear the criticalness of an important command coming out and everybody says it and
the it's just that's what you have to do and we're so well trained at that that's one of the
few tactical things that you learn in basic underwater demolition seal training is you better
pass the word pass the word man it's one of those things it's one of those things you learn to pass the
word this is this is a great point the company coming under fire literally begins its engagement
by falling apart so when you start getting shot at guess what you do you get down you can't say
anyone else and you don't know what's happening so your first thing that happens when you get
engaged is you fall apart there after so long as it continues to engage the overriding
problem of the commander is the reunification of his elements this is a great way to think about
all your tactical leaders out there military police firefighters this is important think about this
after the thing after the engagement starts the overriding problem of the commander is the
reunification of his elements proper fire support and direction are coming are among the
tools which he uses and bringing about cohesion but the fundamental means is communication
getting his men to link up by talking to one another and sending a long word of what they are
doing and what they have seen now this is a very simple thing it is so simple that it recalls
the warning from kernel GFR Henderson in war the simple things are the most difficult past the
part we say that we seek initiative in our men that is the American way of fighting we say that we want
men who can think and act we are just as steadfast however in proclaiming that the supreme
object in training is to produce unity of action these two aims are not mutually exclusive in fact
they are complementary halves of an enlightened battle discipline so do you catch that we want our people to act
we want our people to act for themselves we want them to think and act and at the same time we want
uniform unified unity of command we want them to be working together so we want them to act alone
we want them to work together there's obviously a dichotomy there there's a complementary halves
of an enlightened battle testament here we go this is beautiful but the various curious part of it
is that is that training largely ignores the soul principle which makes these two basic ideas
fully and finally reconcilable we do not teach our men from the day they first put on the uniform
that speech in combat is as vital as fire in combat
speech in combat is as vital as fire in combat we do not say to them that for a man to be
able to think straight about his tactical situation is not enough he must communicate his thoughts
to others before they can begin to produce unity of action out of speech or from the written
word which is it's substitute comes all unification of strength on the battle field and from the latter
comes the decisive action this applies to two men serving together on an outpost it applies equally
to the battalion or the regiment right there right there if you can't communicate with the other
people and people don't spread the word and your team doesn't communicate well with each other
you're not going to be able to join these two halves which is acting and being decisive and
being using initiative and cohesiveness of your unit the question still remains what kind of
initiative is beneficial and what kind is harmful and how may troops be might might be taught
to distinguish between the two right so could a person on your in your cartoon takes so much
initiative that it hurts oh yes they can I see many times before many times before I've seen that
so the question is how do we know how much there's a dichotomy right we want people to action
but we don't don't want to take too much action I'm glad I'm not the book that got me the
issue yeah and here's here's his way of trying to define that is the soldier acting on his own
to advise others of his tactical situation or conveying any other information which may be of general
benefit in furthering the tactical situation of the company or in enlisting the aid of others
in carrying out any action which will benefit the tactical situation of the company so you you
need to take action you need to take initiative as long as it's benefiting the company
as long as you're and you know what we talk about as commanders intent like you can do whatever
you want as long as it's in support of commanders intent if it's non-support of commanders intent we
get a problem in the army of the United States we act towards speech as if it were mortally as if we
were mortally afraid of it we tell our men to think yet we never tell them that if in combat they
remain dumb it is slow suicide slow suicide the period between wars was an age of rapid
advancement in communications technique radio was born the telephone was vastly improved the
teleprinter appeared in television waited just around the corner it all came so fast that we were
struck dumb by our own magic how brilliant is that we were struck dumb by our magic how many people
these days are are be not becoming good communicators because they're not interacting with people
enough because instead of talking to them they're sending them an email that how is that affecting us
pretty much everybody pretty much everybody I'm one of the people you've got emojis coming
up right we got issues I don't know that might be in the step in the right direction right that
additional emojis additional communication you know what it is it does add some clarity to your
statements you know you credit maybe I need to get an emoji game maybe not out but you know that's
a great thing to talk about raising kids to make sure you talk to your kids I work with someone
once had had a kid that had like a speech impediment and this kid would just sit down and talk
your ear off with speech impediment and and I talked to the parent and said hey you got one
confident kid you know with speech impediment how did you get him to overcome you know this
this speech impediment or the it's not so much the speech impediment because he didn't overcome
it's still had it but guess what was going to talk your ear off and was going to sit down
and act professional and get it convey his message and the response was got him to talk to people
all the time and and made him talk to people and so that's what you do get have conversation
with your kids how's that you have conversations with your people on your team how's that
is that one of the reasons why podcasts are popular because you get to hear conversations between
people because you're not here and then otherwise yeah maybe here's he's saying uh this is just
good advice for this is good you follow you folks that are thinking about joining the military
here we go when you prepare to fight you must prepare to talk you must learn that speech will
help you save your situation you must be alert at all times to let others know what is happening to you
you must use your brain and your voice anytime that any word of yours will help you or others
you are a tactical unit and you must think of yourself that way don't try to win a war or
capture a hill all by yourself your action alone means nothing or at best very little
is when you talk to others and they join with you that your action becomes important
got to communicate
this is life tells the story about me telling him to use verbal commands and we've got
that story over and over again because I've done it with so many different people like you
need to you need to use your man voice right now like you're not being loud enough and that was
a classic example of that you know life trying to communicate over the radio and people are
really listening because it's put noise in your ears and all these things happen and you're
you know you're here little voice and in the sealed teams like I said we're so trained to repeat
those commands and I'm like life you gotta try using verbal commands bro you gotta try it and he
kind of looked at me like man I'm given the perfect brief over the radio right now my man will respond
and so finally you know he's you know angry lathe came out and he's got it and you're
everyone yelled and everyone repeated and everything happened and it was one of those things and
that's I mean this is what 10 years ago 15 12 years ago but it was definitely we all had radios on
and everybody every single person had a nice radio the same radio that's being used today
with a with a noise canceling headset do you know what that is? Yes, right. Okay yeah so I know
he's canceling it so you'd think what could be better than that what could be better than this
brand new modern technology with a noise canceling headset you know it's better than that your voice
Yeah yeah, yeah. I'd think that's saying a lot with the voice canceling headset and even even
then the voice is better. Yeah, well when you got the noise canceling headset it shuts off the sound.
So when you're shooting your gun there's no sound coming in now you don't hear whatever's being told you
check
Alright one final statement on that men governed by words
speech galvanizes the desire to work together is the beginning of the urge to get
something done. So learn how to communicate. Read Study English. Learn how to write.
It's going to make you better communicator. All right. Now we go to Why Men Fight.
When a retrograde movement becomes necessary in combat, it is an invitation to
disaster to move before the men are told why they are moving. If the pressure is made,
the fact that that fact obvious, then they still must be told how far to go and the
line or point to which they're withdrawing must be made clear and unmistakable.
Otherwise, they will keep moving and all control will be lost. The spoken word is
the greatest of studying forces in any time of crisis. Think about that. The spoken
word is the greatest of studying forces in any time of crisis. An excited lieutenant
shouting, get that out of here and follow me to that tree. If follow me to that tree
line on the far side of the creek, we'll succeed. The little perfectly calm captain
trying to bring off the same movement but keeping his voice down with the result
that the men do not hear him will fail. That's obvious. Formal language under these
circumstances is almost unknown in the army of the United States. In fact, get the hell out
of here has virtually established itself in our jargon as the customary order.
Said, dren general dragon, dragon mirroh. A strong moral education is the best safeguard
to solidarity of troops under fire. Even so, the soldier will forget or discount much
that training has taught him as the danger mounts and fear takes hold. It is then the
voice of the leader must cut through fear to remind him of what is required. The reason
to explanation of why this is true has never been more clearly stated than by staff sergeant
Pete F. Dyne of the 17th Infantry Regiment after he had won the silver star for taking over
the leading of a demoralized platoon during the Burton Island fight.
And here's staff sergeant Pete Dyne. I knew that the men were afraid and careless at the
same time. Though some were being killed, the others would not take even average precautions
in going after the enemy installations as we passed through them. I knew they were afraid
because I was aware of my own fear. Then I asked myself why it was that we felt fear in
each other and I realized it was because all of the leaders had quit talking. I knew
then that the only way to get confidence back into the platoon was to talk it up as a man
might do in a football game. I continued my own attack on the enemy shelters and spider
holes, but there was a difference. That now began yet that I've now began yelling to
others. Watch me. This is what your supposed to do. Get at it. Keep working. Keep your eyes
open. Soon the platoon became collected and began to operate methodically. But I kept
talking until the end because I had learned something new. Leaders must talk if they are to
lead. Action is not enough. A silent example will never rally men. Get some or get at it.
In battle, back to the book. In battle, the voice of the leader is always needed to call
back the man from carelessness. It is their chronic attitude in and out of danger. Even in veteran
troops, it is not expected. It is not the expected presence of the enemy, which keeps them
alert on a hostile field, but the force with which they feel pressing them at any given moment.
When fire comes against them, they sense danger from every direction unless they are informed
of the source of the danger. There is apt to occur swift moral transition in which they become
mentally pinned by the mere incidents of fire. Like that's a mentally pinned. You don't know
what's going on. So this was interesting. On seven occasions, it has been part of my duty to
investigate the sources of panic along the battle line twice in the Pacific in five times in
Europe. There was times where people just panicked and left the line and he had to investigate them.
And he goes into that was how each of these incidents, each of these seven incidents got
it start. One or two or two or more men made a sudden run to the rear, which others in the vicinity
did not understand. But it was the lack of information rather than the sight of running men,
which was the crux of the danger. For in every case, the testimony of all witnesses clearly
developed the fact that those who started the run and thereby spread the fear which started the
panic had a legitimate or at least reasonable excuse for the action. It was not the sudden motion
which of itself did not did the damage, but the fact that the others present were not kept informed.
Got it, you people got to know what's going on. For example, a sergeant in the first battalion
502nd Infantry was hit through an artery during the Carratin caused way fight on June 12, 1944.
It happened in a flash. One second he was hit and the next he was running for a first aid
station without telling his own squad why he was getting out. They took out after him and then
the line broke. Others who hadn't seen the sergeant make his dash saw someone else in flight.
They ran too. Someone said the order is to withdraw. Others picked up the word and cried it
along the line with draw, with draw. It happened just as simply as that. You can see how that happened
all day long, right? The term control is not in this instance to be considered as synonymous
with the voice of authority. Control is a man to man force on the battlefield. No matter how
lonely his rank any man who controls himself automatically contributes to the control of others.
That's legit. Any man who controls himself automatically contributes to the control of others.
Fear is contagious, but so, but courage is not less so. To the man who is in terror and
virgin on panic no influence can be more steady than that he sees some other man near him who is
retaining self control and doing his duty. It's weird how people are just so influenced by other
people. Let me see it everywhere. Personal honor is the one thing valued more than life itself
by the majority of men. The lips of the dying attest how strongly this force influences
individual conduct in battle. A young company runner hit by a shell at Carataine collapsed into
the arms of his commander and with his life swiftly abing said captain this company always called
me a screw up. Tell me that I wasn't. Tell me that I wasn't one this time. The captain replied
no son you sure weren't and the board died with a smile on his face. The Wallen army is a collection
of individuals. It is also a crowd under pressure and under pressure it tends to ever to
revert to crowd form. The seeds of panic are always present in troops so long as they are in
the midst of physical danger. The form of which changes moment to moment. In the majority of men
the retention of self discipline under the conditions of the battlefield depends on the maintaining
of an appearance of discipline within the unit. So obviously with businesses and with businesses
you're going to business that like people are squared away. That's how they roll. And everyone
acts squared away and you get some people that aren't and that's the image that's the culture
of the company and no one squared away. Should the latter begin to dissolve so should the
discipline within the unit begin to dissolve only a small minority of the most hardy individuals
will retain self control. The others cannot stand fast if the circumstances appear to justify
flight. When other men flee the social pressure is lifted and the average soldier will respond
as if he has been given a free release from duty. For he knows that his personal failure is made
inconspicuous by the general dissolution. To it is a normal tendency in troops that they will
drift rearward from the fire line unless they are being given an active direction. But it is
just as normal that they will reverse themselves quickly and return to their duty if given a firm
order by someone whom they know. Yeah and if you're a business situation we just like put out word
like like just something stupid like like you'll be in a store or something and people people will
be like not knowing hey there's just someone say hey there's a register over here or like you're
at a waiting and a line at a and a public event of some kind you know. Hey wrap this thing around
wrap the line around and everyone just does it. Yeah yeah like it's a thing to kind of what you're
talking about to be like at the airport. The day I was super late. Remember to get a lot of planes.
You're gonna watch the DC and went to the wrong airport. Last minute. Last second by the way.
Anyway I'm standing in the TSA line. I see super long by the way. When I see super long I mean like
like you ain't got to make it flat. Yeah this long long like a long line like there was a crowd.
Yeah. So I'm standing in line. I'm like you know when you're in a hurry you're always looking
for a little shortcuts and I'll violate a few rules you know to get there quicker so I'm on the
lookout. Everyone else is just cruising just falling in line literally. So I look and I see a weird
sort of line start of kind of the forming. Wait shorter too like the kind like I can like
literally literally walk about 15 meters. I had to the end of this weird little line forming.
Ever see it? It's a little line but it's kind of like one of the things I go about what we're doing
and I think the lines make it even more psychologically rigid you know where it's like we're in line
and to get out of line that's a kind of a big deal. Yeah well it's the social what is you call in it here.
The social you get the release from social duty right. Yeah oh yeah yeah if you're
showing everyone saying in line and you're just doing whatever else there's like a social
pressure to stay in line. Yes exactly right so but boy man I was doing a mischief like so
I ask oh how's this I ask the guy not like in that line because it's where ahead I ask
the guy in the next line who's like maybe two three people ahead of me but in a different line.
I was like is that another line and he you know he says he said yeah it is he goes yeah it is
so I go I just go he already knew it but then he was like standing it like he didn't do it
probably from that social pressure so of course I go and then everyone falls. I look behind everyone
I feel like a commotion behind me but it's just so many people feeling in that's how freaking leading
from the bottom and it made the flight by literally like what 10 seconds probably you're close.
Yeah. This is again I kind of covered this moment ahead at one more time.
Individuals, Traggers had almost no combat value and inducted into a strange organization.
The majority of them were unwilling to join any such solid unit which still facing the enemy.
The minority even after being given food and a little rest took their place in line but the moment
the new unit came under enemy pressure the individuals quit their ground and ran rearward or
sought cover behind somewhere behind the combat line. So this is what I would talk about. You get a new
person and they don't know anyone they're not going to do their job on the other hand. This is
important for businesses on the other hand that was not true of gun crews squad groups or
Paltoon which had been routed from their original ground and separate from their parent unit but had
managed in some way to hold together during a fallback upon being inducted into a strange
company they tended to fight as vigorously as any element in the command which they had newly joined
and would frequently set an example of initiative and courageous action beyond what had been
asked of them. Think about that. Keep your little elements together. I used to be real big on that.
You got your little fire teams and I was always trying to keep a little fire team integrity.
Keep that fire team integrity. And these are like in a sealed tune there's four fire teams in
a task unit. You know there's eight fire teams trying to keep these guys still know each other but
they're going to do a little bit better. They just keep that fire team integrity. No each other.
They already know what's up. In our striving for a system of discipline which recognizes in theory
they'll the theories offered in order to practice that the relationships within our army should be
based upon intimate understanding between officers and men rather than familiarity between them
on self-respect rather than fear and above all on uniting comradeship.
Self-respect rather than fear. This is they have destroyed the name and tradition of old and
honored regiments with the stroke of a pen for convenience sake. They have uprooted the names and
numbers which had identity with a certain soil and move them willy nilly to another soil.
They have moved men around as if they were pegs and nothing counted but a specialist classification
number. They have become fillers of holes rather than architects of human spirit.
That's bold, isn't it? Yes, you like them. I do. So sometimes in the army and the army does this
more than anyone else I believe. They'll just like take a unit that's been around for 122 years
and fought in all kinds of wars and just disband them. They're done. Just get rid of them.
And sometimes they bring them back thankfully but that's not a good idea. There's a certain power
in tradition. There's a certain power in tradition. When they formed up Seal Team 5 they took
they took Seal Team or sorry underwater demolition team 11 and they disbanded it and basically
reformed it as Seal Team 5. But if you look at the symbol of Seal Team 5 there's a setting
son and on the setting son is the number 11. You can see it go down. Little will fact for you.
Pretty cool. But they at least kept that tradition alive.
Yeah. And yes, this idea of fillers of holes rather than architects of human spirit.
You got to think about what you're doing with the little units when you start breaking them up and
moving people around. There's this there's relationships there that you're messing with. You might not be
doing a good thing just because this guy has a certain qualification. I'll put him over there.
They're in lies at great weakness and we have suffered from it through every war.
For it must ever remain that acquisition of a true knowledge of the nature of man in war will
suffice very little if put to work only by the local commander on limited ground.
So everybody's got to understand that there's human beings working here that you're dealing with
human that you have to be an architect of the human spirit. That again leaves too much to chance
and puts too high a premium in on the virtues and talents of the average leader.
What does need to primarily if we are to go forward the policy stemming from the top which are
based not upon slide rule calculations but on knowledge of the human heart.
Next chapter. The aggressive will. I like this little section.
Moral is the thinking of an army. It is the whole complex body of an army's thought. The way it
feels about the soil and about the people from which it springs. The way that it feels about
their cause and their politics is compared with other causes and other politics. The way that it
feels about its friends and allies as well as its enemies, about its commanders and gold bricks.
About food and shelter, duty and leisure, militarism and civilianism, freedom and slavery,
work and want weapons and comradeship, bunk fatigue and drill, discipline and disorder, life and death,
God and the devil. That's a big, that's a big, that's what he's saying.
Like you've got human beings and the morale of the army is all of that stuff combined together.
You have to account for it. The definition cuts through one of the oldest myths in the military
book that morale comes from discipline. The process is precisely the reverse. True discipline is
the product of morale. Right? I never really thought about that too much. How's your morale?
If you have good morale, you're going to have better discipline. If your morale is weak,
what happens to your discipline goes out the window? The soldier needs a sound and vigorous body
if he is to contend in modern war. But this itself should be the object rather than the
perfecting of him in drills, not even remotely related to use of his weapons, out of a mistaken
and obsolescent notion that they somehow improve his discipline. There's no such time for
the method, for this method. So doing stuff just to do it, to like improve your discipline,
is not what we're talking about here. Beyond the basic physical requirement, the essential is that
he be given the freedom to think with a clear mind which freedom can be his only when he becomes
convinced that the army and particularly the army as represented by his immediate
superiors is doing everything possible for his welfare. You've got to care about your people.
That's what Mook said. That's what Dezwit General Mookiama said. You've got to care about your people.
Like 100% agree. Soldiers can endure hardship. Most of their training is directed toward
conditioning them for unusual privation and exertion, but no power on earth can reconcile
them to what common sense says is unnecessary hardship which might have been avoided by greater
intelligence in their superiors. That is awesome. If your people do all kinds of take all kinds
of punishment for you, but if they see that there's a way you could have avoided punishment for them
and you didn't do it because you were dumb, they're going to rebel against you. The more intelligent,
the more intelligent the soldier, the more likely it is that he will see as a sign, see that as a
sign of indiscipline up above and will answer it the same way. So if the upper chain of commands
drop in the ball, guess what's going to happen lower chain and where drop in the ball too.
Nothing more radical is suggested here than that the leader who would make certain of the
fundamental sound as of his operation cannot do better than concentrate his attention on his men.
That's a bold statement. There's nothing better you can do than concentrate your attention
on your men. If you want something to be successful, concentrate on your people. There is no
other worthwhile road. They do only themselves who believe that there is a brand of military
efficiency which consists in moving smartly expediting papers and achieving perfection
informations while at the same time sliding or ignoring the human nature of those who may command.
The art of leading in operations larger, small is the art of dealing with humanity
and working diligently on behalf of men, of being sympathetic with them, but equally of insisting
that they make a square facing toward their own problems. These are the real basis of commanders
major calculations. That's just a awesome, that whole thing. The art of leading,
dealing with humanity, working diligently on behalf of your men, being sympathetic with them.
And at the same time dichotomy insisting that they make a square facing toward their own problems.
Men who have been in battle know from firsthand experience that when the chips are down a man
fights to help the man next to him, next to him, just as a company fights to keep pace with its
flanks. Things have to be that simple. And ideal does not become tangible at the moment of
firing a volley or charging a hill. Having already suggested that the thinking bayonets
can never be subordinated by the routine methods of a discipline which is based largely in
mechanical procedures, I will add that no leader will ever fail his troops, nor will they fail
him who leads them in respect for the discipline life.
Between these two things, discipline in itself and a personal faith in the military value of discipline
lies all the difference between military, maturity and mediocrity.
A salute from a willing soldier is as meaningless as the moving of a leaf on a tree.
It is a sign only that the subject has been caught by gust of wind, but a salute from the man
who takes pride in the gesture because he feels privileged to wear the uniform,
having found that service good is an act of the highest military virtue.
One further fact that needs to be stressed about the character of those officers whose
capacity could be measured in the efficiency of their companies while they were
scrupulous in the care of their men, they were not wet nurses.
They treated their subordinates as men. They did not regard them as adolescents and they did not employ
the classroom manner in dealing with them individually or in the mass. That was an important part
of their hold upon the men. The men prize a commander the more if he looks and acts the
part of a soldier, but the characteristic of a fine appearance will but betray him the sooner
if he has no real canship with the men. So he, this is dichotomy. You got to take
air in your men, but you're not a wet nurse. You don't treat them like little kids.
The characteristics which are required in the minor commander if he is to prove capable of
preparing men for and leading them through the shock of combat with high credit may therefore
be briefly described as one diligence in the care of men. So here's the characteristics.
Number one diligence in the care of men. Number two, administration of all organizational affairs
such as punishments and promotions according to a standard of resolute justice. Number three,
military bearing. Number four, a basic understanding of the simple fact that soldiers wish to
think of themselves as soldiers and that all military information is nourishing to their spirits and
their lives. Number five, courage, creative intelligence and physical fitness. Number six,
innate respect for the dignity of the position and the work of other men. I'm gonna tell you those
are some good rules. Some good things to think about if you're in a leadership position.
Here's a little commentary and it was written in 1947, might still be true today. It is my belief
that there is no more hopeful doctrine put before our people today than that the army should
duplicate the arrangements which obtain within the civil society, slavishly imitating the
latter's comforts, social customs and ideas of regulating justice and insisting on no higher standards
of personal responsibility for its people. So hey guess what, the military is not the civilian
world and we shouldn't be trying to make it that way. The military is the military.
That's 1947 he's saying that. I'm gonna have to say I agree.
In my opinion and I do not say this lightly, the fault in our disciplinary level during World War
II was not primarily that the discipline of the ranks needed to be more relaxed, but that the discipline
of a considerable percentage of our officers needed to be tightened. For this simple reason,
insofar as his ability to mold the character of troops is concerned, the qualifying test of an
officer is the judgment placed upon his soldierly abilities by those who serve under him.
You can only mold your troops if they judge you worthy of molding them. Think about that for a minute.
If they do not deem him fit to command he cannot train them to obey.
Thus, where slackness is tolerated in officership, it is a direct invitation to disobeyedience
and as disobedience multiplies all discipline disappears.
I love this little section right here. No officer can command unless he is certain of himself
and confident that his orders are likely to lead to success. On the other hand, command does not
create its own magic. Men who are filled with the spirit of disobedience will break the heart
and ruin the character of the finest officer who ever lived. Men who deal with the rabble
browsers out there. You're going to deal with some tough cookies. The way in which the loss of
moral incentive is reflected in the tactile behavior of troops was thoughtfully expressed many
years ago by the British teacher Colonel GFR Henderson. When troops once realized they're in
fear-rewardy they can go they can no longer be dependent on. If attacking they refuse to advance
if defending they abandon all hope of resistance. It is not the losses they have suffered,
but those they expect to suffer that affect them consequently unless discipline and national
spirit spirit are of superior quality and unless the soldier is animated by something higher than
the habit of mechanical obedience, panic, shirking and wholesale surrender will be the ordinary
features of the campaign. Pretty harsh warning. Nothing more unfortunate can happen to the commander
than to come to be regarded by his subordinates as unapproachable for such a reputation isolates him
from the main problems of command as well as its chief rewards. So you got to be approachable as a leader.
This saying there's nothing more unfortunate than being regarded as unapproachable. It is back
the book is never a waste of time for the commander to talk to his people about their problems.
Here's a good people ask me. I get all the junior leaders from the military from the civilian
sector from everywhere and they ask me what am I supposed to do? To the young officer whose conscious
of his own reserve and his anxious to do something about it I can suggest nothing better than to
make a habit of full physical participation. That is instead of watching the squad or a platoon
workout or problem and either directing or criticizing its action. Let him pick up a weapon,
relieve one man in the group, then let himself be the one commanded until the conclusion of the
operation. Is this course of contact beneath the dignity of the American officer? Certainly not.
So what does it get in the game? Getting the game.
In the United States Service we are tending to forget because of the effective motorization
that the higher value of discipline of the road march in other days that it wasn't that it
hardened muscles but that short of combat it was the best method of separating the men from the
boys. Always come back to a little road march action. Best method for separating a men from the
boys is the road march. This is true today. Despite all the new conditions imposed by
high velocity warfare, hard road march is the most satisfactory training test of the moral strength
of the individual man. The great advantage of the gain in moral force through all forms of physical
training is that it is unconscious gain. All forms of physical training are going to give you an
unconscious gain of moral force. Let that propel your workout tomorrow morning. Will power,
determination, mental poison, mental control, all march hand in hand with the general health and
well-being of the man. Fatigue will beat men down as quickly as any other condition for
for fatigue brings fear with it. There is no quicker way to lose a battle than to lose it on the
road for lack of adequate preliminary hardening in troops. Such a condition cannot be redeemed by the
resolve of a commander who insists on driving troops in extra mile beyond their general level of
physical endurance. That's important to remember. If you've got people that aren't ready,
doesn't matter how much you try and make them do something they're not physically capable of doing it.
That's the reality. Extremes of this sort make men rebellious and hateful of the command
and thus strike at the tactical efficiency from two directions at once. For when men resent
a commander they will not fight as willingly for him and when their bodies are spent, their nerves are
gone. In this state, the soldiers every act is mechanical. He is reduced to that
animatism of mind which destroys physical response. His courage is killed. His intellect falls asleep.
Truly then it is killing men with kindness not to insist upon physical standards during training
which will give them a maximum fitness for the extraordinary stresses of campaigning in a war.
Killing men truly killing men with kindness not that they're physically ready. As the body is
hardened so must the mind be steadily informed so that the soldier will take a reasoning view
not only of the privations of the field but of that which is being attempted. Once we depart from
the ideal of automatic responses the condition most likely to produce unity of action in battle,
the only substitute for it lies in the possibility that more and more men in the ranks can be trained
to see and think through the haze of battle in unison with their commanders.
You can see, you can see, I mean when you read about face, there's the hack worth,
this is what hack worth did, man this is how hack worth rolled.
Fact. Back to the book, why is the will of the military commander deemed more decisive
of success than the will of leadership in any other calling? Clear lead is because the inertia,
frictions and confusions of the forces of the battlefield make all positive action more difficult.
And yet the principles which win intelligent man to man cooperation apply equally in all circumstances,
the same rules work on the battlefield as in an office. That's why we got to have something called
Ashalon front. The will does not operate in a vacuum. It cannot be imposed successfully if it
runs counter to reason. Things are not done in war primarily because a man wills it.
They are done because they are doable. Okay, this is a really important little section.
And, you know, I, you know, I talk about force of will. You're going to make something happen.
Force of will. But there's a very important, I've called a caveat to that and we're about to
get into this caveat. So to say that again, things not done in war, things are not done in war
primarily because a man wills it. They are done because they are doable. The limits for the
commander in battle are defined by the general circumstance. When he asks what he asks of his men
must be consistent with the possibilities of the situation? That might seem like common sense, right?
Hey, I can't ask you do anything that cannot be done. Yeah. Back to the book.
What can be successfully willed must first be clearly seen and understood. If a mid the confusion
of battle the commander sees what is required by the situation. If a mid the miscarriage of
arrangements and other assailing doubts of other men, he measures the means of doing it. And if he
then gives his order and holds his men to their duty, this is the ultimate triumph of the will on the
battlefield. To reflect on this thought is to know that he exercises his will far less upon his
men than upon himself. Should he on the other hand attempt to will that which his men know
cannot be done or feel unanimously as utterly beyond reason or should he base his order on
assumptions which they recognize as false his will becomes temporarily without power and cannot
help the situation. This is one of those things where people think, I'm just going to tell him to
do it and we'll see what they can get done, right? Like no, they're not going to see that they can't
do it and they're just going to say we're not going to even try. Make your goals realistic. Make them
not just realistic. Make them achievable. There is scarcely any commander with any time in combat,
but has had his experience of having willing troops become suddenly unresponsive because his
facts were not straight. So sometimes the troops aren't going to do what you want to do. Even though
you have this strong will, they're not going to do. Why is that? Here we go. It happened to lieutenant
Colonel H.W. O. Knard during the night advance of first battalion, 501st parachute infantry
against the German held Dutch village in September 1944, the village of Shinjou,
which I have praised elsewhere in this book as one of the most brilliant battalion actions of the war.
The column had advanced only 500 yards beyond its outpost line when it came under machine gun and
anti-tank fire. Knard heard some of the fire clipping the branches of the tree above his head
and judged it was all going high. But the lead company had stopped and the men had jumped for the
ditches. He ran forward shouting to the men, keep going, keep going, that fire is high.
But his personal advance had no effect. Not a man stirred. So this is an incredibly
like seasoned, I mean, tough well-trained group and he's telling them, he's personally leading
him forward tanko. Go, go, we got to go. Don't worry that fire is high, but has no effect. Not a
man stirred back to the book. Within a moment, he understood why he had failed from one of the ditches
a rifleman answered him. If you think the fire is high, Colonel, come over here. We've had eight
men hit in the legs. So you've got to think about what is actually possible.
The supreme trial of the commander-in-war lies in his ability to overcome the weaknesses of human
nature in the face of danger and these are the matters which he cannot know in full unless he
is served with men where danger lies. Check. Chapter 12, men under fire.
To those that have known the firing line, it would scarcely be necessary to point out that
morale and combat is never a steady current force, but a rapidly oscillating wave whose variations
are both immeasurable and unpredictable. It is in this respect chiefly, the rapidity and capriciousness
of its variations that the morale problem in the zone of fire differs from that of a rear
area soldiering. A band of men go through a terrible engagement, take its losses bravely,
and then become wholly demoralized in the hour in which it must bury its own dead.
A regiment, threaded to utter objection by a protracted stay in the lines may find its fighting
spirit again in a six hour a spite during which the men are deloused and giving a chain given
a change of underwear. A battalion advancing boldly may be brought in check because it's commander
did the disservice of going too far forward and getting himself killed within sight of the ranks.
A platoon may charge in capture and enemy hell, held ill, losing half its numbers and doing so,
then run down the hill again because one of its own artillery shells landed too close and hit one man.
So that the morale of the troops is constantly at risk of going up or going down.
The near presence of death and the prospect of meeting it at the next moment move men in
mere many curious and contrary ways, many men seem to change character under the guns.
The life of hardship and of danger gives new strength to the truly strong and greater weakness
to the truly weak. So combat is going to have an effect on people. It's going to amplify their
situation. What normal man would deny that some of the fullest and fairest days of his life
have been spent at the front or that the sky ever seems more blue or the air more bracing than
when there is just a hint of danger in the air. This is an important thing for leaders to understand
the man who cannot bring himself to trust the judgment and good faith of other men cannot command very long.
He will soon break under the unnecessary straining puts on himself, sleeplessness, nervous irritation
and loss of self control will be his... will be his lot until he is at last found totally unfit.
The ideal relationship between a commander and his subordinate is nowhere better illustrated than
an passage from the letter of instruction wherein Grant told Sherman to proceed to the destruction
of Johnson's army. Quote, I do not propose to lay down for you a plan of campaign,
but simply to lay down the work it is desirable to have done and leave you free to execute it
in your own way. Some decentralized command right there. This is another good one. When a company is
stopped by physical shock restoration of its movement becomes a problem for the battalion.
When a company is stopped by psychological shock, the continuing of the advance remains the problem
of the company commander. And here are some examples of that. Defusion of the company over
two-wide a sector, a retrograde movement by supporting weapons such as armor, the death of a well-loved
officer, light losses from friendly supporting fire. The appearance of some new and unexpected weapon
in the enemy sector such a few of the causes of psychological shock, the local treatments,
arous many and is varied as are the diseases. With respect to the effect of friendly fire hitting
among troops however, it is to be observed that if circumstances leave any room for doubt as to
the source the men will jump to the conclusion that they are being victimized by their own guns.
It is, in instances where it is unmistakable that they have been hurt by their own fire,
however, the commander is ill-advised to lie to them. They will usually learn the truth later on and
when they do it strikes a blow to his prestige. The experience combat soldier knows that such occasional
accidents are part of battle and he accepts them as such but he cannot make any good judgment to
the realization that his commander is either a fool or a liar. No gain ever comes from being
slick with troops, from acting divviously instead of forthrightly, from posing as having superior
knowledge or from being secretive or discounting the common sense of the majority. See a lot of
people do that. They discount the common sense. They think they're going to get away with that with
trying to bullshit the troops and it doesn't work. The most common cause of psychological shock
however is partial victory. The adage at the weakest point follows success as a fundamental
truth of minor tactics and the danger is always greatest when success is too easily won.
Success is disarming. Tension is the normal state of mind and body in combat when the tension
suddenly relaxes through the winning of a first objective. Troops are apt to be
pervaded by a sense of extreme well being and there is apt to ensue laxness in all its forms
and with all its dangers. He hammers this home. It might be well to speak of the importance of
enthusiasm, kindness, courtesy and justice which are the safeguards of honor and the tokens of
mutual respect. Respect between man and man. This last there must be if they are to go forward
together. Prosper and one another's company and find strength in the bonds of mutual
service and experience a common velocity in the relationship between the leader and the lead.
Loyalty is the big thing. The greatest battle asset of all but no man ever wins the loyalty of
troops by preaching loyalty. No man ever wins the loyalty of troops by preaching loyalty.
It is given him by them as he proves his possession of the other virtues.
The doctrine of a blind loyalty to leadership is a selfish and futile military dogma
except in so far as it is enobled by a higher loyalty in all ranks to truth and decency.
War is too, war is much too brutal a business to have room for brutal leading. In the end,
its only effect can be to corrode the character of men and when character has lost, all is lost.
The bully and the sadist serve only to further incomber in army. Their subordinates must
waste precious time clearing away the wreckage that they make. The good company has no place for
the officer who would rather be right than be loved for the time will quickly come when he walks
alone and in battle no man may succeed in solitude. That's worth repeating. The good company has
no place for the officer who would rather be right than be loved. We talked about that when Jordan
was on. You don't need to be right when you're dealing with your significant other. No. That's not
important. I have known a few brutal battle whose talents were so limited that they could not
try no other means of command than the abuse of men. But I have yet to see one who did a good
job of holding his command together when the going became rough and in the ranks fear of the
enemy began to eclipse fear of the man up top. Now he here comes the dichotomy.
Because he's talking about all these kindness and courtesy and justice and then he says
ruggedness, ruggedness, toughness, ah, these are quite different things. So long as they are only
the outer reflection of an inner determination and so long as the inner fire is tempered by a
heart having real compassion for men, these are the best hands for the business. They will win
the hearts of other men and will stimulate their valor. These others will try to be like them.
For as a truth not to be denied that the rugged way is the natural way in battle.
dichotomy right there. It tells this quick story. There comes to mind one last picture
from the same campaign. The scene is stone-walled fort Montbury, the last obstacle
barring entry into breast. A battalion of the 116th Infantry Regiment under major Tom Dallas
has had the fort invested for three days. But the defenders have withdrawn to within the inner
walls and will not surrender. The infantry fire cannot get at them. The ports have been
flamed but without visible effect. Finally Dallas acts for three tons of TNT to blow the walls.
He is given one ton, assisted by the infantry, the engineers lay the charge in a gallery
under the wall. The work completed Dallas is ready to give the orders.
Then he remembers, on the night before the battalion had attacked and Lieutenant Drwood C.
settles had been killed in the moat. There had been no chance to recover the body.
It is still there and will be crushed by the falling masonry.
So the demolition is held up and Dallas asks for a volunteer to go down to the moat,
under fire and bring out the body. A young Lieutenant named Kelton responds.
In a few minutes, Kelton returns with his burden. He says to Dallas,
we are ready now. Dallas replies, ready? Then blow them all to hell.
The charge goes off the earth shakes. The walls collapse with a roar.
There is a stunned silence from within the fort. Dallas stands there for a few seconds
and the tears fall as he looks down at the body of his dead officer. That is loyalty.
It closes out with a couple more things. In every action larger small is decided by what happens
up there on the line with where men take the final chance of life or death.
Though I would not for a moment contend that modern war can be fought in one without vigorous thought
and action on the home front, I deny absolutely that these things can vouch safe military victory
anymore now than in the days when men fought with spears and crossbows. Any who look at war
and think otherwise are citing through the wrong end of the telescope. They have become deceived
by the vatness of the national preparation. How differently they would see things if it became
their duty to measure the thin margins between victory and defeat on the field itself.
The great victories of the United States have pivoted on the acts of courage and intelligence
of a very few individuals. The time always comes in battle when the decisions of statesmen
and of general generals can no longer affect the issue. And when it is not within the power of
our national wealth to change the balance decisively. Victory is never achieved prior to that point.
It can only be one after the battle has been delivered into the hands of men who move in
imminent danger of death. Courage is the real driving force in human affairs and that every
worthwhile action comes of some man daring what others fear to attempt. The man who is willing
to fight for his country is finally the full custodian of its security. If there were no willing
men, no power and government could ever rally the masses of the unwilling.
To men who have been long and battle and have thought about it deeply, there comes at
last the awareness of this ultimate responsibility that one man must go ahead so that a nation
may live. And so the final and greatest reality that national strength lies only in the
hearts and spirits of men. The army, navy and air force are not the guardians of its national
security. The tremendous problem of the future is beyond their capacity to solve.
The search begins at the cradle where the mother makes the decision either to tie her child
to her apron strings or to rear him as a man. It continues through years of schooling when children
are taught either to place personal interests up or most or to think in terms of their responsibility
toward their society, their country and all of mankind. And there you go. Strength lies in the
hearts and spirits of men and freedom lies in the courage and the discipline of daring to attempt
what others fear. And I think that that reflects not just the strength and freedom of
nations of countries but also of individuals. We are ultimately responsible for ourselves
for our own freedom, for our own security. It is on us. And I think that is one of the
or the most valuable lessons to learn from SLA Marshall. And you know unwillingly he also taught
us a lesson about being truthful and honest which he was not and had he listened to some of his
own teachings. He might not have made that mistake to tarnish his reputation. It's not worth it.
He failed to listen to his own lesson. And maybe that's the last thing we learned is that we
just don't just don't talk the talk, just don't preach. But walk the walk and live the life
live correctly and follow the rules that you set for yourself. And then you go and you live
with the courage and the strength and the discipline. So that you can truly free your mind.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight, echo Charles. Yes. So speaking of
strength and discipline and walking the walk and walking the walk and living the life
staying on the path. Maybe you've got some things that could help us uphold the personal standards
that we set for ourselves. Yes. I can. I will. SLA Marshall.
Tautus a lesson he didn't want to teach us about that didn't he? Yeah, you know, there's one of those things where I was kind of
getting into it. You know like I'm like yeah, yeah, that's true. Yeah, that's and then like kind of like how you
meant you can from like wait, but this guy but then you know it's like it's the it's the that got to me. Yeah,
it's the that got to me. It's an unfortunate that got to me. Yeah, see that's man. If this guy, if this guy,
if we just knew about his normal military record and you never said he didn't have enough stuff,
this would have so much more impact. Yeah. The fact that he lied just just it just hurts it.
It's all there's to it jammed him up as as echo trolls would say. But you know, if you can
how as it were not throw the baby out with the bathwater. Yeah. Yeah. There's some of those
stuff in there. Yeah. I'll tell you what is possible. This for us to stand the path.
Yeah. And in that path on that path is jujitsu. Of course. Right. Better be for shibi. Should be in my
entire team. You actually said today that that was one quarter of your life. It is in your life.
One quarter of the things you do is jujitsu. You know of the total things that I do. Yeah.
Important things because there's things that aren't on that list like no one will grow street store. Well,
going in the grocery store does facilitate one of the other things in my life. See what I'm saying?
Does not one of the things. It is not one of the things. No. That's like saying,
okay, breathing. You know, well, bro, it breathing is not a part of your life. Well, yeah, but it
facilitates other things. Okay. So if that's the case does origin facilitate jujitsu. Yes,
it does. Big time. Which is good, right? Yes. So I eat food and you gotta have origin. Yes. Check.
Big time. And okay. So origin. Okay. Origin main.com. This is where you can get your geat for jujitsu.
If you haven't got one already, go get one. There's people out there who don't know any other geeks
at for origin geat. Actually, some contact to me was like, hey, I realize, you know, origin is the
geat, but before I buy one, would you consider donating one to my cause? I think they're like saving
up from, you know, cause sometimes that's how, you know, you save up for your geat, whatever. So I'm thinking
on one hand, the dichotomy. Sure. I'm never using these other geeks again. I wouldn't. Oh, I see.
But on the other hand, why would I want to bestow a substandard geat on to someone just starting by the way?
So it's like boom, they got that. But then again, no, I'll get, I probably will. I'll see.
I mean, that's the size, you know. All right. Well, that's me. They're here nor there. And
nonetheless, the point is if you want to get good geat, all made it America, various types of
ships. I had when we were in Maine. So after the campus over at the factory, we were just
getting stuff done and planning and everything. But he went into depth on weaving the fabric on the
loom and everything. Bro. It's crazy. I've got full understanding, though. Yeah. And it's also.
Yeah. It's awesome to see. It's interesting to watch Pete get into it. Just let him go. Yeah.
Oh, yeah. For sure. Oh, man. That's why these things are like so dope when you look at him. That's why
that's why that's why the company is where it is. Yes. Because without that passion for him for the
team, like when you talk to anyone on the team in origin, they're like whining of this stuff to be
awesome. Yeah. And so that's why it's that way. Yeah. Yeah. So it's cool. If you ever get a chance to
go to the factory up there, it's worth checking out. Yeah. Because it isn't just like, oh, a factory.
It's like a factory. You can hang out there. It's kind of like a, would you, it's a
project like a pro shot. Yeah. You can kind of go in there and then it's like kind of open.
You can talk to the people. It's good, man. That's good. Yeah. So yeah. Oh, yeah. I would recommend that to
in farming to main, by the way. So it is anyway, also on there is joggers and rash guards and
clothes. Yeah. For sure. For sure. The rash guards compression compression gear. Yeah. That's
for your supplements as well. So you got for supplements joint warfare, which is going to help
your joints for a bunch of different reasons. I get awesome compliments about that that I'm
stoked on. That kriloil also going to help your joints and it's going to help you just whole life.
And then you got the discipline, which I'm on a lot of discipline right now. And I didn't even realize
we were at a three hour podcast at this moment in time and we recorded a couple other podcasts today.
Yeah. The shorter podcasts, but podcasts, nonetheless. You over here getting the upper hand on
life. Yeah. That's what's going on. Plus I did the three scripts of discipline. Yeah. I'm doing
I have to feel like I understand it. So just one free life, pre-mission, pre-function. Yeah, pre-function.
Pre-get some. Pre-get some. Yeah. You're going to get some in any format, mental format, physical format,
that my middle daughter took the ACTs on Saturday and she came home. She I kind of fueled her up on
some discipline before going in and she came back fired up. She was like, yeah, no, I felt so
I was getting off. And I was like, yeah, you're just, you're just a discipline. Yeah, so it's one of the
many schools I ever. And you know, she's not as big as me. No. I still gave her an opportunity to do this.
I'm down for the three schools of discipline. By the way, yeah, it's good. Yeah, it's kind of a double effect
and I could see how that could be. Especially if you go into some situation like a test. Or even like a
jujitsu situation, whatever. Just get it. Just do it. Yeah. And then even afterwards, when you remember
how like solid you were, you're like, you kind of get you fired up. Yeah. It's true. It's like a double layered
thing. You got fired up because you got fired up. You like that, though, too. Yes, I do very much. And
oh, yeah, and the last thing is, and it's not the last, but certainly not the least is something called
mok. If you want to know what mok is, it's real simple. Mok is mok is mok. It's really nice. Yeah,
if you want some additional protein. Right. I mean, mok pancakes straight out. How did you do it? Okay.
Okay. So now you're going down this rabbit hole. It's making mok everything. Okay. Here's the
thing. I'm sketch about the pancakes. Right. So first of all, I don't even like, I straight up
don't even like pancakes at all. That's interesting. For me to even think about making mok pancakes,
maybe it's something I could try because maybe I would like it. Well, if you don't like it,
here's the thing. I'm not a mok pancake like expert at all. Okay. So I tell people how to make it.
Well, here's the thing is how I made them. Okay. So I get tests with the way where they good.
Because they weren't good. Let's not talk about it. Oh, they're real good. Yeah. So
did you put maple syrup on it? I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did.
Maple syrup come from origin. Main. Okay. That's okay. Well, then again, no, I can't say that. I don't
think so. Not that I know it, but I don't read the bottle or nothing. Okay. Good. Oh, well,
okay, on Saturdays or Sundays, depending I get I make pancakes. It says only one day. And then it's
for the kids and all this stuff. So it's a thing. Oh, that's cool. Hey, you know what I'm going to do for
you kids this weekend? I'm going to give you a bunch of carbohydrates and poison you. Yeah. Well,
in my defense maple syrup. I got these or my wife got these paleo, but it's paleo pancake mix. Okay.
Yeah. Check. Was that almond powder or something? Ah, I don't know. Okay. Paleo pancake mix. Check.
So boom, I go in and you know pancake mix is like a certain kind of mix to create like a
pancake. Yeah. I don't know. I don't know why it is. But then I'm like, wait,
I need to create pancake. I can make pancake mix. I could easily jam this whole thing up easily.
And I'm not being able to just for me as an experiment. My kids are still on the way.
She seems like, yeah, they're about to make it. But I give them more pancakes. They are not correct.
I will hear about it. And the whole thing is a flop. Yeah. I guess technically I just make regular
pancakes later. But it wasn't about that right then. There I was trying to deliver big time. So I
can't just start throwing random ingredients and I'll recipe in the back of it. So this is what I did.
It called for a cup and a third of pancake mix. I just put like a little less than a cup
and then a third, a little bit over a third cup milk. Milk in there. A little bit of water.
Some MCT oil. I put in. It calls for like you put butter and I did put butter. Like a
grass-bed butter by the way. And there was an eggs. Yeah. Yeah. So you put an egg. Boom. Mix it all up.
Pancakes. Oh, I put chocolate chips in the form of a happy face too. We did it all from time to time.
And yeah. So we did that. Yeah. I'm more like a sad face at your house. But boom. I make them
a little bit darker. Obviously because it was the chocolate peanut butter by the way. What's in the
minute? Yeah. Well, yeah. There is darker brown. Yeah. Not the mint too. By the way, I think that
you're risking jamming up pancakes for the mint. I think I don't know. I didn't do it. Anyway,
yeah. Came a good boom. Maybe we'll syrup. Boom. Big hit. Kids like they kids didn't know. But
they had the peanut butter kind of flavor in there. Yeah. Yeah. So that's the milk. It normally
goes with milk. Or you can put it on water. But that's like a ham sandwich. Whereas if you put milk
in there, it's like a delicious. You know what? It did do I put a two drops of vanilla in there?
Oh. Andy. Andy Burke came home from camp. And we were just talking about camp. And
this cool. He's like out with the awesome meeting to everyone and training in bubble
ball. And he's like, you know what I really like though? And I was like, oh, why? He's my first
time having more. Yeah. He's all. He's like, he's like, he's like, this is surprisingly good. Like,
like, Brad, we already knew that. And I was like, ah, you, you do you think people don't
believe it? Is your instinct to think, oh, this is some kind of a supplement. It's going to taste
bad. And it's have to deal with it. But this one may be tastes okay. And therefore, you know,
these guys are talking up. But the reality is the reality is it's good. Like a dessert. Straight up.
Yep. It's like a milkshake. Yep. That's the milk. And has is good for you. That's the crazy thing.
All right. So cool. That you can do all that stuff in origin, main dot com. Yes. And also
jocquistorts called jocquistore. And this is where you can get shirts, hoodies, rash, other rash
guards, more skewed towards the bad, the message. Well, call it the message. Anyway, there's some
cool stuff on there. If you want to represent discipline equals freedom, because discipline does
equal freedom, by the way. That's one of those things like you can think about that for like 20
days. And it'll it'll make more and more sense over the 20, 20 days. And then after two years. And in
my case three years makes even more sense. You see it everywhere. Just the fingers were busy. Yeah.
And so it does. And if you want to represent jocquistore.com, that's where you can get the stuff.
Cool stuff on there. So new stuff on there too, by the way. Really? Yes. I.e.
Because you're making stuff. I don't even know about decentralized command style. Well, we got a
few novelty items. You know, what I'm using is that. I'm assuming if I have it correctly, it's just
something that's pretty cool. You know, got to go in there and find out any novelty items. Sure. You
think people are going to read you think people on the path throughout spending their harder and money on
novelty items. Is that what's going on? Uh, well, there's always layers. So it's not just novelty.
It's still you're still representing big time. 100%. But some one of the layers is just quite novel.
In my opinion. Anyway, go there. Jocquistore.com. Why is it so long? You're talking about it.
Yeah, we're throwing that's why you got to know. It's going to check and check. Jocquistore.com.
Yeah. Anyway, hats on there as well. A lot of just cool stuff. Anyway,
Jocquistore.com. Good way to support. Good way to stand the path. It's just good all around. Good.
David, did you see the, uh, what's the name? Um, not what's the name. But the, you know, the Nike commercial,
right, you know, the Nike commercial has been in the news, right? The commercial, whatever. And
Theo Vaughan was like, hey, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah. The opposite of it. The opposite of it. That was a thing. Yeah, you know what that is. Maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe not
obviously. You know, when you look at it, it's like, yeah, hey, yeah, they did the same thing. But it, that way.
I know where they got it from, you're not okay. Whatever. Um, but they did do the same thing. But here's what?
Yeah, here's what I have really got from that whole thing. Especially his video. How he did it. He was like, watch it. You know what I did?
It really illustrated that that concept like how we talk about all the time where
When someone says good like that, it really stands out now.
Like you see that everywhere.
Even if you see the word good written on the sign or something,
you're like, this is too jocous it.
You know what I'm saying?
So it sticks out in your mind just way more.
And again, whether that happened or not,
it's a weird word to pick.
Yeah.
That's a weird word to pick for the ad for the Nike ad.
It's a little bit of weird word to pick.
It's a little bit, it's not a normal word to pick.
In my opinion, it's a good word to pick.
But anyways.
Nonetheless, good, that's all good, man.
You're the man.
Also, good way to support the seal.
Do you still want to kind of hand my back though, didn't you?
Oh, big time.
Oh, yeah, what's up.
Yeah.
And it makes sense too.
Yeah, just the whole, I mean, you know.
But yeah, I think that when you hear that, you, I always hear,
oh, joc, I just hear you saying it, you know.
Even if I see the word good in all caps in a regular sentence.
Like in a different context, I'll be like,
You know, remind me of it.
It just sticks out like that.
I don't know.
Anyway, good way to support also is to subscribe on iTunes and
Stitcher, if you're Android, Google play and you know,
wherever you where we listen to your podcast, just subscribe.
And don't forget that there is.
The warrior kid podcasts, you have which we recorded a couple more.
Today, so we've got some fresh ones out there.
I apologize for to everyone for taking so long to get those out.
Life got the upper hand a little bit.
We back, but that's like, yeah,
I had to get default aggressive this weekend and just crush some of those.
Yeah, so warrior kid podcasts for your kids and for, well,
really uncle J.K. has less than for everybody.
Also, warrior kid, there's a warrior kid at Irish Oaks Ranch.
Com, Aiden, he's up there working hard and he's making,
he's got a business.
He's making soap, jocco soap.
Good soap.
Yeah.
And you can get that there.
Help help yourself.
And you help yourself by staying clean.
That's the idea.
Stay clean.
Yeah.
The YouTube channel.
If you want to see echoes legit video,
Did you post the video that you just made for kids?
The revenge.
I call the revenge video.
You call it the frigid.
Yeah.
That's interesting.
Yeah, that is interesting.
There's some of these things there.
I have not posted that yet, but yes, yes.
That's the YouTube video.
YouTube channel, which is called Jocco podcast.
It's a YouTube channel.
You can watch all the YouTube videos on there.
And then you can leave crazy comments from someone now and then a thing about all kinds of crazy stuff, which is fun.
Sure.
Whatever you like.
Also, back back to working out.
I got re-onit.com on it.
The company on it.
Don't.
I got rings until you recently hear something about rings.
Again, I said before, you're always preaching about the rings.
Right.
So, one of the what do you call it?
The staples.
It's actually, in many ways, considered to me to be the first thing you could get.
If you had one thing you could get, you could get rings and you could do really well with them.
Yeah.
Now, reaping the benefits of the rings.
They're like, they're actually pretty dope.
Yeah, we got to get wood rings.
I was telling everyone, get wood rings, not plastic rings, not metal rings, get wood rings because they absorb the sweat.
They dig.
Yeah.
Anything else is slippery.
They'll get debris.
Yeah.
And my kids are, you know, and they're adjustable.
I've only had on it rings.
They're cool.
They're adjustable by number.
And it's all the stuff.
So my kids, two years old and five years old.
They're swinging on them.
They get real creative with them anyway.
It's not yet one night.
But I'll do that.
It's all these little functional things anyway.
There's a lot to be gained with the rings.
I'm a gram of the lever of the rings now.
And now I would agree with you 100 percent that that should be kind of the first thing I think.
You can say a part of it.
But you might as well get rings.
You can do folks and you can do dips and you can do pushups and you can do muscle ups and you can do like weird.
It's kind of squatting, planking.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
App stuff.
I can't do it by the way.
Just in case anyone gets the idea that I can do it.
I'm here to tell you I cannot even come close.
Yeah, that would be pretty impressive.
Because I just impressive even if a little gang.
Yeah.
But here's the thing about rings and pull ups specifically.
This is why it's better than a pull up bar.
Because pull ups pull up bars coins.
Good.
Really good.
I've had a pull up bar for a long time.
But the rings is like, yeah, you can adjust for pull ups.
And then you can adjust them down so you can do kind of like a rose.
It's a way that you get their pull adjustable.
You can do a piece of bra.
It's a bra.
That's the overall day.
That's the overall.
It extended my workout literally by like 30%.
Dang.
30.
Yeah.
Because there's other like I use them every single time.
You do your next exercise majorly.
Anyway, you know what?
Those are rings.
This is a lot of other cool stuff on on it.com.
So yeah, man.
Brows around.
See what up?
Get something.
Psychological warfare album.
We're working on the next one.
I'm thinking that the next one is not going to come out.
It's going to come out right around Christmas is my guess.
Yeah.
So if you have anything, somebody wants one about shopping.
Compulsive.
How do I shop?
Stop.
Compulsive shopping.
Yeah.
I don't know if I can tackle that one.
You know why?
I have no compulsion to shop.
I don't even like shop.
I don't even like go to the store.
You don't know.
I don't buy anything.
What the demons of shopping.
Yeah.
I've seen.
No.
I will say I've seen it because you see people that buy things that they can't really afford.
Yeah.
So I guess maybe we could talk about it because yeah.
No.
Actually now that I think about it, I can talk about that.
We can put together a little something.
Psychological warfare.
If you got little moments of weakness you want to overcome, I can talk to you personally about
that through your iPhones.
Google Play iTunes.
This is an MP3.
Through your Android.
I don't want to leave you all out.
Through your Samsung.
Right?
Sure.
Equal Opportunity Platform.
Device.
Devices.
In every scenario.
Let's say.
Yeah.
And also you can get that chocolate white day.
I'm on that train too.
There's a lot of trains in the chocolate situation.
It's supplementation situation.
It's been hot.
Yeah.
And while when it was hot up in Maine at the camp, how good did that tea taste?
Legend.
Because it had it.
It was really good.
It was crazy.
So yeah.
She was always super scary.
She was very cool.
Afterdish became dr wiat.
Right?
Because he could pack it up, or at least he had it begun.
I wanted to know.
Okay.
But even though it broke down,
when it struck new light.
It dropped into half of the lights,
the light absorbed the light on the back of the mic.
Yeah.
Apply beeps and light on top of the light.
You're low-grade.
At all that was the light for the lights.
It's not a nice watch around you.
And don't worry, your difference is over.
For a for a for a chance to see.
As it seems to work.
I didn't really expect it.
I'll come for it.
I'll install it.
Okay, so then I also got some books.
We got the way into Warrior Kid and Mark's mission.
This is for kids.
Between the ages of four and 84.
Because everybody can get something.
Yeah, you got life's five year old fired up about getting the job.
By the way.
No.
Yeah, in the second book, Mark, who's the young character,
and the book wants to get, wants to get a new bike.
But he needs money in order to get money.
Guess what you need.
You need a job, son.
You need a job, or sell some stuff.
Or sell some stuff.
All right, job and sell.
Or that's what he has to do.
So yeah, if you want to give your kids a good book,
that will teach them about discipline, hard work.
Being kind.
Yeah.
But the dichotomy of being strong.
It's all in there.
Yeah, man.
And it's all in there.
You're late.
You explain it while you Uncle Jake.
Whoever one of you guys, it's good how you explain it
in real simple terms.
And then you get this kid Mark, especially in the sub talk
about the second one.
Right now where he's like, he kind of,
he overcomes them stuff.
He's super strong right now.
But still a lot to learn.
So he understands it.
And then at first he's questioning it.
Then he starts to understand.
Any questions?
Then he understands.
Then he's fired up about doing it.
I mean, because he gets, but it's really good.
And that's literally how like the kid, whoever you're reading
in my case, really read into my daughter.
She's fired up.
And I watch her getting just as fired up as Mark.
He's like, oh, my gosh.
She's like, oh my gosh.
Yeah.
No, she gets fired up.
Pretty good, man.
Really, it's interesting to see the little transition.
Yeah, I forget so much good feedback.
Anyways, that's that way the warrior kid and Mark's mission.
Also the Dispunnyckels Freedom Field Manual, which is solid,
which is solid.
It's a good daily reminder.
It's not, you don't need to read that whole book every day.
You can read one.
You can read three pages and you can get yourself, you know, you might have been
very often path of like, get yourself right back on the path.
Yeah.
It's a good thing to read.
You could like read that, but read it.
A page two pages three pages every day.
It will, would you, I would say this.
It will absolutely help you if you read three pages a day.
Yeah.
That's a bold statement too.
I'm saying this book, a book.
This is not, this is not an exercise program.
This is an supplement that you take.
This is not, this is not a treatment that you get.
This is a book pages in a book.
If you read them, it's going to help you.
Yeah.
That's, that's what my statement is.
And I believe it's, be true.
Why?
Because I read it.
I wrote the damn thing.
And I still read it.
And it's helping.
And then we got extreme ownership, which is combat leadership, a run with my brother,
Lave Babin.
And how to take the principles that we learned in combat and use them in your business and
life.
And the follow on book to that.
The dichotomy of leadership, which I mentioned the word dichotomy quite a bit, Dean
Lister says it's my favorite word.
I'm not so sure it's my favorite word.
I think my favorite word is discipline, but I don't know if I have a favorite word.
Anyways, I do talk about the dichotomy a lot because the dichotomy is present in everything
that we do.
So if you want to get this book, it comes out September 25th.
If you want to get the first edition, you should order it.
You'll be the yesterday or right now because, well, you don't want to miss out on the first
edition.
I got my first copies.
I'm all doing right there.
There it is.
So dichotomy of leadership.
Order it now.
September 25th, it'll come to your door.
Speaking of leadership, we got a leadership consulting company called
Eshelon Front.
And we solve problems through leadership.
It's me.
It's Lave.
It's JP to know Dave Burke Flynn, Cochrane.
We also got Mike Surrellian, board.
We got a couple new members joining the team right now.
If you want us to come to your company, go to Eshelonfront.com.
That's what we do.
Also the master in San Francisco, California.
Getting close to sold out.
We probably have a little bit left right now.
Maybe by the time this podcast comes out, it might be sold out.
If you want to come to the master, leadership event San Francisco, California,
October 17th and 18th, all the other ones have sold out.
This one is going to sell out to.
If you want to come, don't wait to the last minute.
Don't wait until I post on social media that the master sold out and then call up and say,
can we please fit one more people because we can't?
If we could, we wouldn't say it was sold out.
So just register now for the master.
And for current uniform personnel military law enforcement,
board of patrol firefighters, paramedics first first responders.
We got the roll call September 21st.
We just opened up a few more seats.
I think we opened up 50 more seats.
We don't that twice now, but it's going to be, I don't know,
for being able to do it again because registration is going to be closing soon.
That is also registered at extremownership.com.
And of course, now we have EF overwatch where we are connecting
back-ups, veterans, combat aviation veterans with companies that need solid,
proficient leaders that understand and can bring the attitude of
extremownership into your company.
If you want to on either side, if you're vet and you want to get in,
get a look for a job, if you're someone that needs a leader in your company,
go to gf overwatch.com to get in the game.
And if you want to keep cruising with echo Charles and me,
and you're not at one of those events or you're not at one of those events,
yet, well, then you can find us on the interwebs on Twitter, on Instagram,
and on Facebook, keep, boh.
Echo is at Echo Charles, and I am at Jocca Willink,
and lastly to everyone that is serving,
and that has served in the US military thanks to you and your families
for shielding us from evil and keeping us free and to police,
law enforcement, correctional officers, border patrol,
firefighters, paramedics, other first responders.
Here at home, thanks for being vigilant and protecting us and our family.
And to everyone else out there, keep learning, keep striving,
keep trying to figure out where you can get better and be better,
and it is an easy.
And it takes courage and it takes strength and it takes discipline day after day
after day to get up and face the unforgiving world and get after it.
So until next time, this is Echo and Jocco out.